When he’d gone a ways down the block , a loud engine cranking and failing almost gave him a heart attack .
What good would a car do for those morons anyway ?
Of course the thought of Toby reared its ugly head again .
Toby would already have that thing going zero to sixty .
That boy of his could fix anything you put in front of him , so long as it had moving parts .
But he was only sixteen , and now that his father was about to check out , who would take care of him ?
The boy 's mother left when he was a baby .
Hank never managed to find her and felt sure she did n't want to be found .
And Diana , he did n't want to think about Diana .
The thought of Toby growing up in the Empire all alone hurt him enough .
It dawned on Hank if he could make it through the night and get close enough to the edge of the city , he might make it out alive .
The bastards were bound to Necropolis .
It was common knowledge , ruthless as they were , that they held to their end of the blood pact rather loyally .
Hank turned left down another alley , this one even more narrow than the one before .
Something ahead smelled rotten .
He heard the scurrying sounds of rats all along the way .
Before the war , the residents of Necropolis would have kept the city clean of them .
But then again , before the war , Necropolis had n't been Necropolis .
No one even knew its inhabitants were real then .
The war had brought them out .
They waited centuries for such a war to come along and leave the humans vulnerable .
They were smarter than humans .
Anyone who did n't blindly believe everything the Imperial Church brainwashed them to could see that .
The first scream echoed from somewhere far behind him as he came upon North Eastern Avenue .
It stopped him dead in his tracks and he turned to make sure no one was coming .
Once he was sure they were n't close enough to get him , he crossed the street .
He started to look both ways as he went , out of habit , his heart running in overdrive .
He had n't truly been afraid until that point .
Hearing the scream made it real .
From the look of things , North Eastern Avenue had once been very busy .
Hank spotted an old army surplus store a ways down the street and started towards it .
Everything looked gray .
The road , the sidewalk , and even the street signs .
As he crossed a side road just before the surplus store , he heard more screams .
The screams were coming from way up in the air .
He looked up above the tops of the buildings behind him .
Figures dressed in what looked like black rags flew around in circles above the buildings .
Each one of them had a man wearing a blue prisoner 's jumpsuit hanging from its face .
He could n't tell for sure from that distance , but it looked like they held the men with their teeth .
Hank watched in horror as , one after another , the flying figures began to drop their victims to the ground .
None of them made a sound as they fell , giving Hank the impression they were already dead .
He turned and ran for the army surplus store .
He went for the back of the building , for cover if nothing else .
He came upon a door with a window .
He found a couple of big rocks on the ground .
Afraid busting any glass would alert them to where he was , he set the rocks down and began to slowly rip a portion of his shirt off as quietly as he could .
As he was ripping the shirt , the screams started again .
He wrapped the strip of shirt around a rock .
He waited for another round of screams .
When they started , he cringed as he slammed the shirt-wrapped rock into the door 's window .
The rock shattered the window inward , knocking glass onto the tiled floor inside .
It was quiet enough , Hank thought , to be covered by the screaming .
He carefully put his arm in the hole where the window had been and felt around for the lock .
The air inside was cool .
Once he managed to unlock the door , Hank looked around to make sure he saw no movement .
He went inside once he was sure he was alone .
Aside from the little bit of light coming in the front windows , the inside of the store was fairly dark .
He could make out the different aisles , but not what sat on most of the shelves .
He thought of turning on the light switch , but decided not to risk it .
He groped around the shelves carefully .
For the most part , he found what felt like clothing .
Eventually , he came across a large machete that included a sheath with a belt clip .
He backtracked to where he’d found the belts and took one that seemed like it would fit him well .
He put the belt around his waist with the sheath attached and buckled it tightly .
He put the machete in its sheath and sighed .
He thought having the thing should give him more comfort than it did .
When he made his way to the next aisle , more screams caught his attention .
He tried to block them out , but had to admit to himself the sound was making him more and more nervous .
After all , they must have gotten most of the prisoners by now .
He continued feeling his way through the items on the shelves , trying to find anything useful and especially hoping to come across a flashlight .
Particularly the kind that came with its own batteries .
He’d come all the way down the aisle before he noticed a good while had passed since he last heard any screaming .
This worried him .
He picked up his pace as he headed for the next aisle .
About halfway down , he found something in a thin cardboard box he couldn’t identify .
He looked toward the end of the aisle where the light shone in through the front windows and reflected on the white , tiled floor .
He snuck over to the end of the aisle and knelt down .
He put the package just close enough to the light to see it was a thin box of matches .
He considered using the matches to light his way to look for a flashlight .
But , remembering they could sense heat and not knowing their range , he was reluctant to do so .
He stared at the matches for a few seconds .
Then he looked back at the dark aisle he had been searching and sighed .
A voice in his head reminded him that they were fairly small matches and it was highly unlikely the things could sense heat from so far away .
Besides , if they could detect heat that well , they would have already found him by now .
With that thought , he gave in and tore open the box with his trembling hands .
Once he freed one of the match packs , he dropped the rest of the box .
Then he pulled out a match and lit it before he could change his mind .
The match filled a small perimeter around itself with light and the smell of sulfur .
The scent almost soothed him .
He knew the small flame would n't last long , so he carefully started searching the closest shelves .
A moment later he felt a stinging , burning pain in the fingers holding the match .
He threw it on the ground and did a quiet dance while sucking his thumb and finger .
Continuing his dance of pain , he began smacking his fingers against the side of his leg .
When the stinging died down enough , he took a deep breath and sighed again .
He took out another match and lit it , moving on to the next set of shelves .
In the dim light he could see flippers , snorkels , and goggles of different sizes .
He moved on to the next set of shelves .
Something reflective caught his eye .
He looked closer .
It was a compass .
“I’m going to get an attorney , Jake .
I can’t do this with you anymore.” She took a step toward the living room to put some more space between them .
She wanted to make sure she had room to get away if he got angry again .
“Where are you going to go , Ellie ?
You don’t have anywhere to go .
You’re nothing but an orphan .
Somebody without a home , ” he said .
He looked at the ground but didn’t get up .
Ellie didn’t want to admit how hurtful his words were ; Jake knew her trigger points well .
She had friends that she considered family now , even though they had started out as employees .
“Kevin said I can stay with him and Eric until I find a place .
I’m taking Skipper with me , ” she said , looking around for the little dog .
The dachshund was nowhere to be seen .
Smart dog .
With a heavy sigh , Jake rose to his feet .
She gave him a minute to regain his composure .
With his shoulders slumped and his downtrodden appearance , it looked like all the fight had gone right out of him .
His dark hair was messy and had gotten long , and his clothes hung on his thin form .
He was nothing more than a pale ghost of the attractive man she married eight years ago .
His eyes focused on her , and then seemed to look right through her .
Ellie felt the chills roll down her spine again .
Who was he seeing when he looked at her like that ?
“So you definitely want to go through with this ? ” he said .
His voice was dull .
“Yes , ” she said .
“There’s nothing I can say or do that is going to make you change your mind ? ” Jake looked her squarely in the eye for just a moment , and she thought she saw a flash of the man she used to know inside , screaming for her help and understanding .
Then it was gone , and he was looking past her again .
Ellie fought the urge to glance over her shoulder .
“No , Jake .
I’m sorry .
I just don’t love you that way anymore , ” Ellie said .
What she didn’t say was that she wasn’t sure if she ever did .
But that was her demon to work through .
Eight years wasted for what ?
She wished she had a better answer .
Jake’s reply caught her by surprise .
“I’ve got a lawyer , ” he said evenly .
“What do you mean , Jake ? ” “When you first started talking about this whole divorce thing I decided to talk to somebody too , ” Jake said , his chin jutting .
She wasn’t imagining it .
He was talking to the space behind her .
She saw a flicker of something in his eyes as they briefly met hers again .
It was like he was trying to say something else to her in that silent glance .
“Okay.” Ellie didn’t know what else to say .
“I’m not going to fight you on anything , Ellie .
Since this was my house before , I figure I’ll keep it , especially since you are moving out anyway .
Whatever you think is fair is fine with me .
I don’t want to argue about anything , ” Jake said .
“You’re right ; it’s probably time for you to go.” Why was he suddenly so eager for her to leave ?
His aura hadn’t changed , but Ellie sensed an anxiousness beneath his words .
What was he trying to tell her ?
“What are you saying , Jake ? ” she asked .
“I’m confused .
Five minutes ago you barreled into me like a linebacker trying to get me to stay with you .
Now you are telling me to go and that you want a divorce too ? ” “I know you’ve got pretty much all your cash wrapped up in the shop .
I don’t think either one of us can afford a big fancy lawyer .
If we agree on everything , it should be pretty easy .
We can just use this guy I know , and we’ll split the cost .
Quick and painless , like the last eight years never happened , right ? ” Jake’s smile was haunted .
Ellie had to admit that the cost of the divorce was one reason she had held off as long as she had ; it was an idea that had taken root and grown over the past year .
Even before she knew about the cheating it was obvious that she and Jake weren’t a good fit anymore .
If Jake truly would agree to everything , doing it that way would be a lot less expensive .
She just couldn’t shake the feeling , though , that there was suddenly more to the story than Jake was letting on .
“I don’t know , Jake .
I don’t think that is a good idea , ” she said , shaking her head .
She was deeply unsettled that Jake wouldn’t meet her eyes .
Something felt off .
Jake didn’t reply .
Instead , he went over to the freezer and pulled out an ice pack .
He grabbed one of the kitchen towels and wrapped the pack inside .
He approached Ellie cautiously and stopped three feet away from her just as he saw that she was getting ready to backpedal .
His eyes narrowed , but instead of saying anything he lifted the ice pack slowly so that it was between them .
“Peace , Ellie .
Here .
I’m really sorry that I hurt you .
I’ll do it your way .
Whatever you want , and maybe we can still be friends , ” he said .
She grabbed the pack out of his hand and held it against the back of her head .
The cool towel felt good against her swollen skin .
“I think you should go , Ellie .
Tonight .
Pack all your things and just go .
And you’ll think about it , right ?
Sharing the cost ?
Making this easy on both of us ? ” Jake seemed to be choosing his words carefully .
Ellie couldn’t believe it .
Jake was kicking her out .
But that was what she wanted , so she couldn’t react the way that she suddenly felt .
She was getting what she wanted , right ?
“I’ll think about it , but I’m not guaranteeing anything , ” she finally said .
Then she stepped back so that Jake would have a clear path to the door .
She didn’t say anything else .
Jake sighed and walked to the door .
He opened it and turned slightly .
Ellie watched his eyes crawl up her form slowly and then settle on her face .
Then his eyes shifted to that space behind her again .
The black aura was back , and Ellie shivered .
“I do love you , Ellie , ” he said .
“I don’t know how to explain it to you , but just so you know , it wasn’t supposed to end like this.” Then he was gone .
As soon as she heard the truck’s engine start and rumble away Ellie’s composed facade crumbled .
She spun around .
Torn between duty to country and responsibility to the future of humankind , they leaked certain information to the general public using the “fictional” character method .
Also , a big part of many members of the Princeton teams focus was on cryptography and the cracking of the Enigma codes .
During World War II , one of these people , Alan Turing , served with the British Government Communications Headquarters ( GCHQ ) at Bletchley Park , where he played a significant role in breaking the German Enigma codes .
There , he used a machine called Colossus to successfully decipher the Enigma codes , which played a huge part in the allied victory .
These machines were the predecessors to the first digital computers .
The scholastic sources that this amorphous and shadowy group drew upon , and the method of sending messages into the noosphere , within a coded document , will become even clearer later in this chapter .
The method employed the technology known as memes as its primary force .
Memes are patterns of information that behave like viruses .
The science of memetics studies the replication , mutation , and carriers of memes .
Many scientists consider memes to be actual living things that “ride” in the nervous systems of human beings and hibernate in books , computer disks , etc .
Examples of memes include catchy commercial jingles , the concept of money , political beliefs , and art styles .
Certain memes , such as teenage cultural fads , are very susceptible to mutation , while others , such as the major religions , have hit evolutionary dead-ends and hardly change from decade to decade .
Some memes , like fire building techniques , are beneficial to their host , while others are toxic to their host , such as the kamikaze and Jim Jones memes .
Oxford zoologist Richard Dawkins coined the term “meme” in his 1976 book , The Selfish Gene .
For now , hold those concepts as floating-point integers in your mind , because they will be handy filters to use when parsing the Incunabula documents and may give you some insight into their origin and purpose .
Now that I’ve given you a few tools to use when reading the actual Incunabula material , let me tell you my part in the origin story of how this very book came to be in your hands .
My first encounter with Incunabula : A Catalog of Rare Books , Manuscripts & Curiosa came about through serendipity .
I was living in Santa Cruz , California at the time and lived in a wonderful and affordable apartment building on a hill overlooking the beach .
When I moved in , I discovered that former Millbrook , Esalen , UCSC , and ISC alumni were the primary inhabitants of the complex .
Among these were Nina Graboi , former assistant to Timothy Leary at the Millbrook Institute in Dutchess County , New York , and assistant to UCSC Chaos Mathematician Ralph Abraham ; Robert Forte , friend and associate of Albert Hoffman , the inventor of LSD 25 , and a plethora of similar “counter-culture” figures .
321 Second Street acted as a nexus point for me .
Nina was fond of entertaining various counter-culture figures in her “parlor” as they came through central California , giving me ample exposure to said guests .
Some of these guests included Timothy Leary , Robert Anton Wilson , Albert Hoffman , Terrence and Dennis McKenna , Alan Ginsberg , Diane DiPrima , Paul Lee , Ralph Abraham , Laura Huxley , and Peter Stafford , among a host of others .
One of the people I admired the most from this scene was a person who has requested that I withhold his name , so we’ll call him “Bob” .
Bob was a brilliant physicist who possessed a twisted sense of humor that I personally found palatable , although many did not .
I personally found the Metaphase Typewriter ( MPT for short ) the most intriguing .
The Metaphase Typewriter was a Quantum-uncertain text generator open for mediumistic possession by discarnate spirits .
Yes , it was in fact a sanctioned Livermore experiment , as nutty as that may sound now .
However , remember this was also a time when Stanford Research Institute and other similar organizations were seriously looking into remote viewing , dream communication and telepathy .
If you’d like more background into these kinds of studies I can’t recommend Jon Ronson’s The Men Who Stare at Goats enough , not to be confused with the movie , which is a vaguely fictionalized version of some of the actual accounts in the original non-fiction book .
But back to the MPT experiments .
The MPT experiments’ text output was captured on a quantum-random typewriter overlaid with second-order English language statistics .
The “Metaphase Typewriter” was part of a project carried out by members of the Consciousness Theory Group to build machines to communicate with disembodied spirits , including spirits of the dead , and beings from other dimensions or dissociated fragments of living personalities .
Imagine , all of this happening at Lawrence Livermore !
The ‘60s were certainly a lively time for pure science .
Ordinary awareness is one of the biggest mysteries of our age : scientists are totally baffled by the fact that humans enjoy “inner experience” along with their behavior , and are at a loss to explain the origin of this experience , although much progress has been made in explaining the behavior .
One small group of mind scientists believes that mind is a quantum effect and that disembodied entities ( which might be called “souls” ) manipulate the body by willfully causing quantum possibilities to become actual .
In this view , mind enters the body from outside ( a philosophical position known as “dualism” ) by operating on certain quantum-uncertain parts of the nervous system .
For centuries , special people have claimed to be possessed by discarnate beings , spirits of the dead , and beings from other planets or higher dimensions .
Members of the Consciousness Theory Group felt that there was something vaguely unethical about possessing an already occupied body and wondered if they could create an empty “consciousness-friendly” vessel and invite wandering souls to occupy it .
In the early 1970’s Nick Herbert ( SCM Corp ) and Dick Shoup ( Xerox PARC ) , along with Bob , designed and built the first “metaphase” devices—quantum operated machines that produced text ( Metaphase Typewriter ) and speech ( quantum metaphone ) .
They used for their quantum-uncertain source a quantity of radioactive thallium monitored by a Geiger counter .
They looked at the INTERVALS between Geiger counter clicks and printed a probable letter if that interval was very probable , printed an improbable letter if that interval was improbable ( much longer than average , for instance ) .
They obtained the second-order English language statistics from an unclassified NSA document available to the public .
The Metaphase Typewriter was operated under several curious conditions without much success .
They invited several famous and not-so-famous psychics to try to influence the endless stream of random anagrams flowing from the typewriter or to cause the ghostly voice from the quantum metaphone to make sense in some known language .
They held séances to evoke the spirits of colleagues who had recently died and who knew about the typewriter , and they held an all-day séance on the 100th anniversary of Harry Houdini’s birth to try to contact the spirit of this great magician .
Depending on how you interpret the data , they either experienced a high level synchronicity or achieved a modicum of success with this experiment .
According to the account documented by Saul-Paul Sirag , a scientist present at the Houdini experiment : The experiments ( done at the U.C .
Medical Center in SF ) were plagued by very intriguing synchronicities , such as the words “by jung.” While Alan Vaughn was trying to influence ( presumably by psychokenesis ) the quantum source into typing out meaningful expressions associated with pre-selected target words .
The “by jung” did not fit the target word but it seemed like—well , a Jungian , synchronicity .
These devices , called “Eccles Gates” after Nobel laureate Sir John Eccles , one of the chief champions of quantum consciousness , would be composed of an array of quantum-uncertain silicon switches as much like the meat-based synaptic switches in our brains .
( Update : In 2014 , IBM announced a chip similar in design to this proposal ) .
Bob and later Nick Herbert were filling my head with these tales around 1989 through 1993 , and the MPT stories started to excite some ideas I already had regarding Third Mind type experiments I was conducting in private .
Using the work of William S. Burroughs and Brion Gysin as my starting point and merging that thinking with ideas such as the ritual origins of games and mathematical game theory , I was attempting to work out some sort of mechanism by which to pull seemingly random ideas out of the ether .
I know that sounds rather crackpot , but remember I was influenced by avant garde art theory as well as science and magick .
I’ve since moved on to work primarily with avant garde and scientific ideas , but I want to inform you of where my thinking was coming from at the time .
In the MPT experiments , I saw a model I could apply to the “mechanism” I was envisioning , a construct that would produce what I called a “living book” .
Later , I would refine this meta-mechanism and name it the Metamachine .
I plan on reissuing my book , Game Over ?
in which I outline more detail of the origins , functionality and intricacies of the mechanisms I was employing .
So for now , I will defer doing a deep dive into the Metamachine theories .
Bob and I saw an element that the MPT had been missing : namely , the strong human interface .
My own experiments into “living book” production had shown me that a connection to the collective unconscious through a human medium was a powerful catalyst .
Synchronicities also seem to emerge , multiply , and in fact lead the experiencer through the otherwise “random” data that comes out of these kinds of experiments .
I have witnessed this multiple times in my own experiments .
( Remember Saul-Paul Sirag’s account of the MPT experiment ? )
Also , with the outline and results of the MPT experiment , I had methods , proofs , and failures to refine my own models , which I was using as the framework for my Living Book experiment .
These early experiments were much later to be adapted into the storytelling methods now known as alternate reality gaming and Transmedia , as well as being the basis for a few patents .
But I digress .
As I said earlier , I feel that the methods and history of the evolution of Living Book and Metamachine thinking should be documented and in that interest I will be updating and expanding Game Over ?
for a reissue under a different title .
To get back to our story : One day in my apartment , Bob and I were smoking hash while deliberating the connections between various quantum models for consciousness and a particular passage in James Joyce’s Ulysses .
Bob interrupted my stoned soliloquy by pulling out a sheaf of Xeroxed papers from his bag .
“Ever see these before ? ” he asked .
I picked up the papers and looked them over .
“No , ” I replied .
“Where did you get them ? ” “Someone sent them to Felicia , anonymously , ” he replied .
Felicia was a media producer friend of ours from Marin County .
I looked them over .
Upon first glance it appeared to be a fringe science catalog , selling books .
I pointed to my bookshelves .
“I have tons of this kind of stuff .
I’ve been collecting fringe science pamphlets and booklets for years.” I then went to my bookshelf and pulled out a newly acquired copy of High Weirdness by Mail .
I threw it down on the table .
“Look , someone even did a compendium of all the weird shit you can send away for , ” I said .
“Collecting this kind of stuff is a fairly popular wacko pastime.” He snickered in the strange way that he had when he was being cryptically funny .
“So Joe , the fact that you have an index and vast collection of this stuff on your bookshelf makes you one of the Alpha wackos ? ” I laughed .
“Yeah , I guess so ! ” He pointed back to the catalog on the table .
“Nick Herbert is implicated in this .
It says he wrote some book that was suppressed .
He told me he doesn’t remember writing it until he read about it in here , but now he’s beginning to question if he did.” We both stood comfortably silent , as only the stoned can , and stared at the catalog for a while .
A few days later , I was at a party at the Soundmotion Garden studios and I cornered Felicia , partly because I was genuinely interested in the origin of the catalog and partly because I thought Felicia was a total “hotty” ( Californian for “very attractive” ) .
“Hey , did you get a weird Xerox catalog of science books and give it to Bob ? ” I asked .
“Oh , yeah , that .
Yeah , ” she said .
“Where did it come from ? ” I asked .
“No idea , it came without a return address .
At the bottom of the card was the same nearly illegible hand writing and he stared at it for a long moment before making a small sound of confusion in his throat .
The writing was just as sloppy as on the envelope but was written in a red marker that reminded Tom of blood .
“Well , who’s it from ? ” Grace inquired in curiosity .
“I don’t know .
The only thing it says is : I’m coming home , ” Tom replied with a shrug .
“We don’t know anyone who would be coming home .
It must have been put in the wrong mailbox , ” Grace explained as she poured milk into four glasses .
“Yeah , but as far as I know , no one on this street has anyone coming home for the holidays , ” Tom told her as he tapped the card subconsciously on the table in front of him .
“Does it really matter ?
It’s Christmas and we got an extra card .
If a stranger happens to show up we’ll be able to redirect him to the right house , ” Grace informed him as Casey and James darted to their chairs and waited patiently for the meal to begin .
Grace untied her apron and flicked it over her chair before taking her seat as Tom placed the card on the counter close to his own chair .
Thanks were given and soon the mystery card was forgotten until later that night when Tom was helping to clean up .
He stared at it for a long moment before shrugging and putting it with the rest of the cards .
An extra bout of Christmas greetings had never hurt anyone .
Part Two : December 21st Tom started his day as usual with a coffee after his shower .
The shower and coffee times were significantly later than normal and he was actually able to enjoy a breakfast with his family .
The children were dressed in thick winter coats , boots , scarves , gloves and hats and the family piled into the car at 10AM .
The forty minute drive to the Christmas Tree Farm took them out of the city center and into farm country .
The farm was so popular that a bus came every hour to take people to and from the farm .
It was a special bus taken from the regular fleet that followed a specific route every year and came equipped with a holder for Christmas trees in the front .
Smaller trees were allowed to be dragged inside the bus itself and until the bus could be aired out , it always smelled of Christmas .
The drive was spent singing Christmas carols and discussing what the children hoped Santa would leave under the tree .
Grace made mental notes about this in addition to the notes she already had in her purse .
They reached the tree farm and noted it to be full despite the lateness of the month .
People were milling about everywhere , making it hard for the Hubberts who ran the farm to get between the large groups with trees .
Children darted between tightly spaced rows throwing snowballs as adults lined up in front of the big red booth to pay .
The line was thinning out some as Tom stepped out of the van .
“Stay close you two , ” Tom instructed as the children leaped out of the car .
They complied with a bit of whining but Casey reached up to hold Tom’s hand .
Grace stayed close to James , not quite reaching out her hand but close enough that if he were to try and wander off that she could grab him .
They approached Old Man Hubbert , the owner of the Tree Farm .
“’Ello there Tom , Grace , Little Casey-May and James , Merry Christmas to ya’ll , ” Old Man Hubbert exclaimed in a loud booming voice despite the fact that he looked to be nearing a century in age and walked with a thick wooden cane .
“Hi , Old Man Hubbert ! ” Casey and James shouted back because they knew full well the older man was close to being completely deaf .
“Hello Mr. Hubbert , ” Grace greeted with a bright grin .
“Hello Mr. Hubbert , do you think we can borrow one of your sons or grandsons to find a tree ? ” Tom questioned loudly while leaning into the big wooden booth that Old Man Hubbert had set up for the holidays .
This year the booth had been repainted with bright red paint to cover the dull reddish-brown color it had been the year before .
‘Merry Christmas’ was stenciled in white and gold lettering across the top of the booth and on either side .
The back of the booth held the door and there was a heater and a coffee machine stashed to one side .
Underneath the main desk of the booth , Tom knew there were specially made Candy Apples and hot chocolate .
The Candy Apples were made from caramel and melted candy canes then partially dipped in milk chocolate before being coated with little chunks of mint .
Mrs. Hubbert made each one by hand every year and sold at least one to every single customer that walked through the gate .
Old Man Hubbert never revealed how many people came to his farm but Tom knew the older man only sold evergreen trees and apples but was still able to maintain the farm .
“'Course .
BILLY ! ” Old Man Hubbert yelled out .
A tall lanky youth who was barely out of his teens came rushing towards the booth .
He carried an axe and wore a flannel winter jack over blue jeans and brown work boots .
A backwards blue baseball cap adorned his head with shaggy brown hair sticking out from under the cap .
His shoulders and hat were dusted with snow and his hands were covered with thick workman’s gloves .
“Yes Grand-pop ? ” Billy inquired with a cheerful smile .
“Take these youngens out to find the perfect tree , ” Old Man Hubbert commanded lightly .
“Of course , follow me folks , ” Billy told them and began leading them into the row upon row of Christmas Trees .
Soon they were deep into the forest of Christmas Trees with Billy as their guide .
They passed a few other families , Billy’s brothers , uncles , or cousins helping the other customers .
Tom knew that Old Man Hubbert had 10 sons and each son had another five or six sons and a few daughters .
At any given time , all these various children and grandchildren would be busy leading a person through the maze of trees .
“Oh , that one daddy , ” Casey called out pointing to a tall tree that sagged a bit to one side .
“That one’s crooked Casey , we can’t have a crooked tree , ” James scolded her and peered around .
“What about that one ? ” James pointed to the biggest tree on the lot which despite its great size was not as full as the other trees .
“That tree is too skinny , ” Casey complained .
“That one , ” She exclaimed a moment later and pointed at a small tree with thick , full branches .
“That one’s too short , ” James whined and the group continued on .
“How about that one ? ” Tom finally pointed out .
The tree in question was just the right height to fit in their living room with thick full branches and stood perfectly straight .
“Yeah , ” Casey and James agreed in unison .
“All right , one tree coming up , ” Billy told them and began to hack at the tree with his axe .
Grace wrapped Casey in a hug from behind while Tom held James back by the shoulder .
Just before the tree was ready to topple over , Billy got a specially made cart to easily drag back the tree .
A resounding crack came from the evergreen as it was severed from its roots and placed onto the cart .
Billy placed his axe in a holder on the cart and began pushing the cart back towards his grandfather’s red booth .
Tom helped as much as he could with James helping Billy in the back .
Grace held Casey’s hand and soon the group was back at the front of the booth .
“Hey Bobby , can you help me load this on the car ? ” Billy called out to an almost identical clone .
“It’s the silver van , ” Tom told them .
“I’ll lead them over , ” Grace suggested as she tugged on James’ coat to get his attention and strode back to the car .
Billy and Bobby followed as Tom watched for a moment while the tree was lifted onto the roof of the van and tied down .
He nodded once in approval and went to pay .
As he was striding to the old man he felt a tingle along his spine .
He half-turned on his heel and saw a flicker of someone in a red coat out of the corner of his eye .
He blinked and stared into the rows of trees , trying to look for the red coated figure .
He shook off the unnecessary paranoia and muttered to himself .
He shook his head to clear it before continuing to the red booth .
“That’ll be $ 75 Tom , ” Old Man Hubbert told him with a grin .
“Can I add a few of those amazing Candy Apples your wife makes and some hot chocolate to go ? ” Tom asked with a grin .
“Course , gim me a minute to grab it all , ” Old Man Hubbert beamed as he slid off his stool to better access the items under his desk .
“How many apples ? ” Old Man Hubbert questioned as two were placed shakily on the desk .
“Another 14 if you have them , ” Tom told him sheepishly .
“Got a party goin’ on at yer house ? ” Old Man Hubbert laughed .
“Well , Grace and I are hosting Christmas and we’ll have my sister coming with her two kids and Grace’s brother with his two kids plus my parents and Grace’s parents make 16 people .
I figured I’d be nice and get everyone one of your wife’s delicious candy apples for dessert , ” Tom explained with a light laugh .
“Full house , lem me get a bag for you , ” Old Man Hubbert chuckled as he turned slowly .
“Thanks but I can just imagine how full your house must be for Christmas , ” Tom remarked .
“Yep , we’ve normally got close to a hundred comin’ down every holiday , ” Old Man Hubbert revealed as he packed 14 candy apples into a plastic grocery bag .
“Wow , and I thought we’d have a full house , ” Tom whistled low as he took the bag and the offered tray of four hot chocolates .
“Ain’t no one got a bigger family than us Hubberts .
Damage today is $ 111 Tom , ” Old Man Hubbert told him with a grin .
Tom happily paid , knowing that the candy apples and hot chocolate were worth the two dollars each .
He hung the bag on his arm and took the tray with that same hand .
“Have a Merry Christmas , ” Tom joyfully said to the other man as he began to stride off with a wave .
“Ya’ll come back here next year , ” Old Man Hubbert shouted back .
I didn’t offer to help her .
I’ve been haunted by centuries-old ghosts that weren’t as strong and determined as her .
The last time , she yelled at me and smacked me with the wood poker .
Only , she forgot it had been inside the fire and singed my jeans .
She didn’t look at me when she spoke .
“I told Father Frank about all this , just so you know .
I spoke to that new Pentecostal fellow , Pastor Roberts , too , said he won’t be gettin’ any souls saved letting his crowd harass harmless folk like you.” “Mrs .
Saunders , ” I said in a patient voice , “I have no interest in converting to Christianity .
I’m suspicious of the lot of them.” She shook the fire poker at me .
“I’m a Christian , young lady .
Watch your mouth.” “You know what I mean .
I’ve just had bad experiences with some.” “Can’t paint us all with the same brush.” She turned her back and I picked up her mug and sipped .
My throat burned .
Gin latte , indeed .
“And you working with the policemen , persons , whatever you feminists call yours.” She gave an indignant grunt .
“No respect these young people have today for the law.” I smiled , even though she couldn’t see me .
My own mother didn’t meddle as much as this woman .
“I’m not working for them anymore , remember ?
My contract expired .
I’m unemployed now.” I left out as my mother reminds me daily .
“Besides , I was a grief counsellor .
It wasn’t like I was a cop or anything.” Mrs. Saunders waved me off .
She reached down and , using one hand to brace herself against the wall , picked up a piece of birch firewood from the neat stack next to the stove .
Using a hook , she pulled up a circular insert from the top and stuffed the log into the hole .
Smoke puffed and curled up from the stove when she poked at the fire to stir up the flame .
“Mrs .
Saunders .
.” I started , but gave up almost as fast .
I knew she meant well , and I didn’t want her to think I was ungrateful .
I wasn’t .
“It doesn’t bother me that people are afraid of me .
I’m used to it .
Maybe moving here wasn’t the best choice.” She shook her finger at me .
“None of that foolishness .
Back in my time , we had no problem with sensitive people like you .
Even the Church recognizes that angels and demons and bad spirits are out there .
You just happen to feel them more than the rest of us .
No ‘arm in that.” The weariness lifted from my soul a little .
When I first moved to the northern Newfoundland town , a number of the older people called me “sensitive.” I took a bit of offence to it , at first , until Jeremy , a local Mountie and good friend , told me it was shorthand for “sensitive to the paranormal.” If that didn’t sum me up , nothing would .
If only I could pop that skill into Mrs. Saunders’s stove like a piece of birch firewood , life would be a whole lot simpler , to say nothing of quieter .
My cell phone buzzed .
I grabbed my purse from the floor and answered .
“Ah , Miss Mills ? ” a young man’s shaky voice asked .
“Yes , ” I said .
The voice sounded familiar , but I couldn’t quite place it .
“Um , it’s Manuel O’Toole .
I’m really sorry to call , but I heard you’re back in town and I’m .
I need help.” I glanced at the wall clock .
The arms of Jesus read 8:25 p.m. “It’s a bit early for needing a ride from a party , isn’t it ? ” I rolled my eyes at Mrs. Saunders who clucked her tongue .
The town teens knew they could call me and I’d give them an anonymous lift home to avoid them drinking and driving .
While I had a lot of support from all the tiny towns around the area—some parents even joined me in offering rides—some became very angry at me for doing it .
It probably had something to do with my driving home some of their drunken kids .
No matter , I was a grown-up and I wasn’t letting a silly thing like crazy parents prevent me from stopping kids killing their drunken selves on the highway .
I’m a trained social worker .
My dad’s a retired Mountie .
My mom’s a doctor .
I’d never be able to look myself in the mirror again if I let a kid drink and drive and die .
“Where do I need to pick you up ? ” “It’s nothing like that .
There’s a bunch of , um , people in the house and I can’t get rid of them .
Mom and Dad are gone for the weekend to Deer Lake , see , for a church thing , and these guys are trashing the place .
Dad’s going to skin me alive if these guys are still here when he gets home.” He had that right .
“Who’s there ?
I can have their parents meet us.” “Ah , see .
.” He hesitated .
“They’re not real people.” CHAPTER 2 All’s Fair in Love and Zombies I’ve lived in and around a lot of small , quiet towns in my life .
None were as creepily quiet as the entire Northern peninsula of Newfoundland .
Perhaps it was the nor’easter wind that blew through the tuckamores on a regular basis , twisting and bending the spruce and balsam into leaning towers of woodland .
Or maybe the palatable salt that lingered in the ocean air .
But the entire area was just damned quiet .
Not sleepy .
Quiet .
Kids get into trouble , especially kids like Manny with too little to do and too many restrictions from well-meaning parents .
It was never real trouble , though .
Mrs. Saunders never even locked her doors at night .
God , folks left their keys in the ignition when they ran into Ricky’s Convenience Store to buy a pack of smokes .
I drove along the highway to St. Anthony and the O’Tooles’ home—all of twenty minutes away .
The wind gusted against the car and I had to drive below the speed limit to stay on my side of the road .
The makeshift scarecrows along the roadside gardens shook as the gales ripped at the bags and fabrics meant to scare away the crows .
I passed my vegetable patch .
The wind had already ripped the scarecrow away .
I’d not been back in a month , so I needed to dig out the potatoes soon .
When I’d first moved to Wisemen’s Cove , I thought it strange that people didn’t garden on their property .
That was before I realized how pervasive the wind was .
Inland , behind the tree barrier , was the way to go .
As I approached St. Anthony—pronounced Sant’ney by the locals—the dense presence of something other hung in the air of the centuries-old fishing town and pressed against me .
It wasn’t that way at Mrs. Saunders’s , but , as soon as I pulled away from view of her two-story , royal-blue house , the other grew thicker like the morning fog that often blanketed the area .
I tried justifying it away .
It was my first day back , after all , and my senses probably hadn’t adjusted to the .
I sighed .
My intuition said Manny’s house crashers were a part of the supernatural that unsettled the air .
I was humble enough to listen to my intuition’s wisdom .
It was never wrong , unlike me .
It said something was up , so I’d listen .
I pushed aside the mounting unease in my soul .
Then , with a sickening “pop” , black fluid seemed to leap out of the wound , reforming the missing eye .
Dallas was back on his feet .
Tossing his metal shield to the side , he drew a saber from his hip and slashed at the she–wolf’s back with all the might he could muster .
The blade struck the creature’s shoulder and stuck .
Freddie , an Englishman from London , was in front of the wolf .
He drew an axe and drove it deep into her chest .
She screamed with rage and gored Freddie with one huge claw .
The man fell back , a large chunk of his face torn open .
The she-wolf then turned to face Dallas , moving fast enough to rip his saber from his hands .
He cringed and backed away .
She was a truly terrible creature .
The fact that she had at one point been a woman , maybe even an attractive one , made it somehow worse .
Here was a creature of beauty , twisted and misshapen into the stuff of nightmares , and she was hungry .
It took all his strength of will not to turn and run , which he knew would mean certain death .
Instead , he continued to step back as the wolf advanced , arms in front of him as if trying to calm the creature .
“Um , sorry about this miss .
I 'll just be going , ” he joked .
She was n't listening .
“The head , man , go for the head ! ” Miller’s voice came from behind the creature .
A second later , the edge of Miller’s broadsword flashed though the wolf’s neck .
The wolf seemed to freeze for a moment and then her head simply rolled off her shoulders , dropping at Dallas ' feet .
“It is the only way to kill them .
How many times do I have to repeat myself ? ” Miller seemed to stumble a bit , as if the sword he always carried was suddenly too heavy .
Turning away from Dallas , he shouted to the men , “It is a fine start , people , but our work is not done .
Time for clean-up .
Make sure that they stay down .
Medic , take a look at Freddie.” Responding to his words , several men pulled axes from their packs and went at the messy work of dismembering any werewolf that looked like it might still get up .
Staring at Miller 's back , Dallas noted the blood flowing freely from the new scratches .
“James can look at that for you , sir , ” he said , referring to their medic .
“It’ll be fine .
The big one is still out there.” Miller grinned at him .
“Trust me , it takes a lot more than such scratches to slow me down.” At the sound of a woman 's voice , Dallas’ attention snapped back to the hill .
“Oh thank God , those beasts were about to kill us.” The woman was speaking in French , walking briskly down the hill towards their group .
She had an almost eerie sense of calm about her .
Even in the dim moonlight she was striking .
Dressed in fine silks , she appeared to be a noblewoman or at least a rich man’s wife .
The men all stopped , distracted by her beauty .
Everyone , that is , but Miller , who raised his pistol and shot her .
Dallas was stunned for a moment .
The woman , however , did not crumble as the bullet struck , only missing a step before quickening her forward pace .
Miller fired three more shots and broke into a jog .
“Get away from it ! ” The men were sluggish , as if coming awake from a dream .
At last becoming aware that something wasn’t right about this woman , they began to raise their axes .
Closing in , the woman shrugged off Miller’s bullets and opened her mouth wide as if to scream .
Instead , a huge black tongue snapped out of her mouth like a lizard’s .
It wrapped itself around one man 's throat .
Instantly , the man stiffened and then appeared to shrink as the woman sucked the life from him .
“Vampire ! ” Miller shouted , “Vampire ! ” The woman’s arm seemed to double in size .
She used this club to swat aside a man who was trying to save his friend .
More bullets struck her , and then an axe , but she simply grinned an unearthly smile as she finished her meal .
Then Miller was there at her victim’s side .
With one smooth motion of his sword , he sliced the tongue in two with .
The man dropped to the ground as the vampire screamed , black blood gushing from her mouth .
In an instant , several men were upon her , chopping away with their axes .
Her shrieking ended with a gurgle .
Miller strode past the men exacting their vengeance and up the hill into the darkness .
Dallas did his best to follow .
Several feet beyond them , a man was waiting in the dark .
In the moonlight , Dallas could not make out his features .
Keeping in mind what had happened with the woman just moments before , he unsheathed a long dagger with his left hand from his belt .
“So you are the Ancient One , ” the man said .
His voice seemed to shake in fear .
Dallas raised his pistol .
He knew it would do little good , but it made him feel better .
His other hand still held the dagger .
“I am , ” Miller said , stopping before him .
“And you are the demon Asmodai , the last of your kind .
I have searched for you for many long years .
Tonight , I end this.” Miller towered over the strange man in the darkness .
“You may be right , old one , but know this : I can never truly die .
Even if you win this battle tonight , in time I will rise up again ... ” “Yes , yes I know ! ” Miller cut him off .
“A great evil that will retake the earth from the filth that is humanity , and not even I can stop you .
Do you have any idea how many times I 've heard this speech ?
Demon , you need a new line ! ” Miller raised his broadsword and lunged at the smaller man , who sprung backward and out of reach with an incredible leap .
The man seemed to smile , although Dallas could not be sure in the darkness .
“It is not that easy , old one.” With that , the man seemed to explode .
He tore at his chest , ripping through both cloth and his flesh , revealing dark black scales .
His mouth opened impossibly wide , his jaw seeming to melt , and a huge black head rose out of his throat , snout first , followed by a long neck .
It tore the remaining flesh of his face to shreds .
Huge black wings emerged on his back and his hands exploded into massive talons .
The monster seemed to stretch and stretch , tripling its size in seconds .
Dallas pulled the pistol’s trigger , backing away from the still-growing beast .
Although Miller had called it a demon , it looked more like a dragon from an old storybook , complete with wings and snout but oddly missing a tail .
It stood like a man on its massive legs and must have been 10 feet tall !
Miller seemed unimpressed .
“Aye , you are a big one .
Good , I like a fair fight.” Miller charged the beast , not flinching for a second .
He dodged the first swipe of its massive talon , rolled between its legs , and slammed his sword into its back .
The dragon roared in pain and leapt into the air , with Miller still clinging to the embedded sword .
The two figures rose high into the air over the hill .
Dallas stood below , watching in terror .
He did not notice that he was still pulling the trigger on the pistol , although he had long ago run out of bullets .
Several men raced to his side , raising rifles at the sky , trying to track the monster .
“My God , was that really a dragon ? ” he asked no one in particular .
The demon reappeared , swooping low over the camp .
Miller was still hanging on .
In fact , he had somehow managed to move up its back toward its head .
The monster was spinning madly , trying to shake him off .
Then they were gone again , disappearing into the darkness .
Belatedly , several of the men fired their rifles .
That’s where you could normally have gone down to the first floor too , if they weren’t all blocked up with panels .
I heard things all the time on that hidden stairway .
Mostly these noises were just below the range of real hearing .
But often it was the almost imperceptible , quick melodic sound ( boomp-boomp-boomp ) of an animal’s feet ascending the hollow wood .
I guess we had a feral cat living down there .
But it made the back of my neck creep every time I heard it .
Let’s just say I’m no specialist on hauntings and I never want to be .
That’s Dylan’s thing and he’s welcome to it .
My area was a little different .
More practical , you might say .
Have you ever passed someone on the street , met someone at a party , who just gave you the creeps for no reason ?
Granted , some of them are just creepy people .
But you should be aware that some of them aren’t people at all .
I was sixteen when I found this out .
I’d just moved out of my parents’ place and I was desperate to be a proper grown up .
A man asked me out .
He was what I’d been half dreaming of for a long time .
He had dark eyes and a lovely smile .
Not handsome , but there was definitely something there .
Funny thing was , when he looked into my eyes I had the strangest feeling .
It was as if on the inside , all my fur went up and my back arched and my eyes went into little slits .
I put it down to childish jitters .
Just a little hurdle you had to jump before you became a proper woman .
I was going to be brave and take the plunge .
Yes .
I was a fool .
You don’t have to tell me .
When did I realise I was in over my head ?
It wasn’t over the first drink when he brushed his hand against mine and every muscle in my body went hard and painful .
It wasn’t when the band started up , loud enough to hurt my ears and he grabbed my arm and drew me into the hot mass of people ( his fingers on my arm turned me ice-cold , but how was I to know that wasn’t how it should be ? ) .
It wasn’t when he took me outside , my ears singing painfully , my legs all befuddled from drinking .
It was the first kiss .
Through the haze of cigarette smoke , I saw his eyes .
They were flat and black and not even slightly human .
The silly thing was that even then I didn’t say or do anything about it .
Because it was all just intuition , airy-fairy stuff , as my dad would say .
The embarrassment of seeming young and naïve was the worst thing I could think of .
Of course , it didn’t take long to discover what was actually worse .
It was his dirty apartment , where he played heavy , claustrophobic music .
It was being all tangled up in the messy sheets and having him speaking to me in another language that I somehow understood , but wished I didn’t .
I came over all queasy and had to be sick in his bathroom , but that didn’t bother him one bit .
He came right in after me .
I don’t remember much after that .
Which is kind of a blessing .
Eventually I found I was walking fast down a too-dark street in an unfamiliar suburb .
I didn’t have my shoes on .
It was horribly quiet out there .
Like I’d landed on the moon .
I kept looking behind but he didn’t follow .
At last I found a train station and sat on the platform , feet and hands like ice , blowing out frigid clouds with each breath .
The first train was at 5.18am .
It was only three .
There was a youngish man waiting there too , which had me in a kind of panic .
There didn’t seem to be anything wrong with him .
He had a notebook that he was scribbling in , and perhaps he was a bit disheveled ( thought she , in bare feet ) .
But he kept looking at me strangely .
I was close to getting up and searching for a taxi , only I had this idea that I wasn’t safe out on the streets .
Not to mention I had no cash at all .
I’d spent it all getting drunk in order to be brave enough to ‘lose my innocence’ .
Well , I was feeling pretty wise in the ways of the world at that stage .
I was cold and miserable and my feet were caught between pain and numbness .
There was an itch on my neck .
I kept scratching at it .
And this boy would not stop looking at me .
I tried to tuck my feet under the bench and be as small and unnoticeable as possible .
At last he stood up and walked over , causing my blood pressure to shoot up so fast I could hardly hear him talking .
‘Hello , I’m Dylan.’ ( Thump , thump , thump … ) .
My heart seemed like it was trying to burst through my ears .
‘Hey , ’ I answered , not committing , not even looking at him .
I was just waiting for him to plant himself next to me and start some spiel .
Or something worse .
I was pretty jittery to tell the truth .
He leaned a little closer and my heart was going so hard it was actually hurting .
‘What happened to you ? ’ It was only then I looked down and saw the mess my clothes were in .
That’s when I realised that annoying itch on my neck was a great big wound .
It was only when I saw the blood that it started to hurt .
But it was the look on his face that really got me .
Funny how you only freak out when someone else looks frightened for you .
You could call it our first date .
Possibly the worst first date in history ( except , of course , the one I’d just had ) .
We talked until dawn .
Only I didn’t really know it was dawn , because it was just one long fluorescent haze in the emergency room .
He must have got me there in a taxi because I don’t remember any sirens .
Frankly , after I’d seen my clothes I got a little woozy .
Intermittently there were doctors and questions about haemophilia .
Dylan seemed to be constantly lapsing into another language ( ‘desmodus rotundus salivary plasminogen activator’ he later repeated for me ) .
The doctors would look at him in a pitying fashion and leave for another hour .
Let’s face it , doctors hate when you speak medical talk to them .
Meanwhile I was seeing stars , literally .
Beautiful little white points of light that hurt my eyes .
But , on the plus side , when Dylan held my hand it made me feel peaceful and warm and I realised that terror was not a necessary prerequisite for romance .
That was my first night with Dylan , but it was also my first encounter with them .
And Dylan seemed to be full of information .
Although , to be honest , he shared very little of it with me .
He did let slip that the night we’d met he was doing ongoing research on the paranormal in the Footscray area .
Cue disoriented girl with bare feet and neck wound .
It was meant to be .
Why did I believe him straight away that this was not just an ordinary creep ?
I can’t really tell you .
But I suppose if you’d seen those strange , black eyes you’d believe it too .
One was a teenage girl .
She ran right at me .
She was missing an arm .
Used my HK USP 45 .
Thank god for suppressors .
( Silencers ) It took me three shots to put her down .
The next was in the back .
Maybe her dad .
He howled at me .
Bastard knocked me over .
Could n't look at them .
They were traveling together .
Had a festering bite on his face .
She did it .
Heard one smacking into the frozen section .
They walk into stuff , over and over again .
She did n't see me right away .
I could smell her .
Her body was badly decomposing .
I took aim and she noticed .
She snarled .
I had to put her down .
I know they were once people .
This sucks .
There were twelve loafs of fresh onion bread in the baked goods area , right out of the machines .
I think the dad and girl made it .
A bus I did n't notice before was parked out in front .
Found a cellphone , picked it up , was face to face with three hunting rifles .
Women , saying they 're doing it for the kids on the bus .
They robbed me , left me with no bread or guns .
I did n't shoot em ' .
Am I fool ?
Spent the night on the roof of the Grocery store .
I had food and a spaded shovel I found inside .
When the street was clear I ran .
2 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon Saw a swarm of them in the park .
What the hell are they doing ?
Sometimes they just stand there not really looking at anything .
I got all the way through the bike path with no trouble .
Then I came face to face with MR. Sholts .
Nice old guy , used to walk his dog by me .
Mr. Sholts was trying to get in the building .
Came up quiet , called his name .
He had on a dirty suit .
Turned , missing a jaw .
Mr. Sholts ran at me , gurgling and spewing blood , black stuff .
Hit him with the shovel .
Tried to drag him , leg came off in my hand .
Mr. Sholts reached up to me .
Think he knew .
Took his zombie head off with the spade shovel on the curb , and drove the blade into his brain .
Still got that Cellphone I found before I got robbed .
It 's dead , hoping to charge it .
Lines are down around here .
Wish family had Skype .
I 've been thinking about why I just let them women take my stuff .
I guess I 'm kind of lonely .
A part of me wishes they took me with them .
Exploring the building .
Found Hayden in the mail room , facing the boxes .
He was still .
Lived on the 3rd floor .
Used to borrow stuff .
Hayden was moaning and whining .
Came around him .
Was missing an eye .
His chest was torn up .
Probably his sweet lil fiancé 's handy-work .
Hayden , the bastard , dove at me , crushed me into the wall .
Took poor Hayden with my serrated machete .
Got it at a yard sale years ago .
$ 10 .
Wish when I find someone they are not trying to eat or rob me .
This sucks .
If it was n't for this damn twitter , I 'd go nuts .
3 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon On my run yesterday through the apartment building , found a glock 17 tactical hand gun .
It was in a desk drawer , in apt 103 .
Whoever lived in 103 was set to go .
The cupboards were filled with canned tuna .
There was an earthquake kit .
Oh and a stun gun in a Medkit .
Heard something moving around in the bathroom .
Made sure to load some fresh ammo , opened the door .
It was a bulldog .
Someone just left him .
Dog 's with me now , eating tuna .
He likes it .
Not sure what to call him .
He seems like he has n't eaten in a while .
He was happy to see me .
Heard some noise in the hall .
Dog was growling .
Going to check it out .
Could be looters , Maybe the dead .
Could be survivors .
Gettin antsy .
I went out into the hall and did n't see anything .
Suppressed Sig sauer 229 Elite armed .
Walked the hall , round the corner .
Black lab dog in the hall half in an APT .
She’d begun straightening up when the solid weight of a hand touched her shoulder .
Serenity shrieked and leaped away , jarring her poor ribs once again .
“I’m sorry , ” a man’s voice said .
“I didn’t mean to scare you .
I wanted to make sure you were all right.” “By scaring me half to death ! ” Quickly , anger replaced the fear and she looked up .
The most beautiful man stood in front of her .
Well over six feet tall , dark wavy hair fell across his forehead and curled around his broad throat .
The square jaw and wide , generous mouth of a catalogue model graced his features , but his eyes blew her away .
She did a double take and something deep inside jolted , like a flick back in time .
Despite the darkness , his eyes were almost a fluorescent , bright green .
Green ?
Not yellow ?
Hadn’t they been yellow ?
She pushed the strange thought away .
“I’m sorry , ” he said again .
Did she hear an accent , something European ?
“You seemed to be in distress .
Perhaps I can help ? ” “No .
I’m fine .
Please , just leave me alone.” The hint of a smile tugged at the corners of his mouth .
He stepped forward , hand held out .
He fixated those amazing eyes on her , “At least let me help you to your feet.” She stared at his hand in mistrust , but couldn’t help glancing at the rest of him .
Well-dressed in a smart woolen overcoat and expensive shoes , he gave the impression of someone of importance , of someone who knew his place in the world .
He was everything Serenity wanted to be .
His hand was large , strong and inviting .
He certainly didn’t look like a lunatic .
Could this man do much worse than what I’ve got waiting at home ?
The anger melted and she found herself incapable of resisting .
Instead , she wanted to take his hand , touch the soft , strangely pale skin .
Serenity reached out and slipped her small palm into his .
She gasped and would have pulled away if not for the strength of his hand closing around her own .
Cold .
He was so cold .
It wasn’t just his temperature catching her breath .
His touch fired every synapse in her body and goose bumps prickled her skin , her heart stuttering in her chest .
Again , her brain jolted like a static discharge realigned her nerve cells .
It felt as though someone had reached in and moved parts of her memory around , as if she’d experienced something she should forget .
Black blobs clouded her vision .
Her legs folded and the world swam away .
His arms locked beneath her before she fell , his easy strength holding her , and she came back to the surface .
“Sorry , ” she managed , embarrassed .
“I don’t know ... ” She tailed off , unsure of what to say .
“What were you running from ? ” he asked .
Serenity glanced up at him .
Concern softened his eyes and the sight melted her ; he was the first person in a long time to show her any kind of compassion .
“Myself , ” she whispered .
“I was running from myself.” He smiled again .
“You didn’t get very far.” “No .
I never do.” She suddenly realized he still held her in his arms , her breasts pressed up against his broad chest , his face inches from her own .
He seemed aware of their close proximity at the same moment and stepped away , leaving them both flustered .
Serenity stared down at the ground , too embarrassed to meet his eyes .
What had gone through her ?
Had he somehow reached inside and touched the essence of who she was ?
She shook her head slightly , alarmed at her own thoughts .
The stress must be too much .
“I ... I have to go , ” she managed , pushing past , not trusting herself to look at him again .
She sensed him about to reach out to her , but he didn’t and she kept walking .
Only when she reached the main street , with its lights and bustle of people , did she dare glance back .
He was gone .
A strange ache of disappointment and relief filled her and she chewed at her lower lip , worrying at a piece of dried skin .
Serenity found herself trying to commit his face to memory , to remember how she’d felt when he took her hand .
She would bury the moment deep inside and dig it out like an old forgotten favorite teddy or blanket when things got really bad .
The thought made her want to cry but she pressed her lips together and fought the tears .
She wouldn’t let herself cry .
Not anymore .
It was getting late ; Jackson would already be wondering where she was .
Hoping to do damage control , she fished in her handbag and found her cell phone .
She only had three numbers programmed in ; home , work and Jackson’s cell .
Hitting home , she put the phone to her ear .
It rang twice before her husband picked up .
“Hello ? ” “Hey , honey , ” she said , trying to keep her voice from shaking .
“I just wanted to let you know I’m going to be a bit late .
The traffic is terrible and I couldn’t get on the last bus , it was full of Japanese tourists.” He stayed silent on the other end .
Serenity held her breath in anticipation .
“How long are you going to be ? ” She heard the measure in his voice , as though every additional ten minutes would buy her another punch .
“Half an hour , ” she said .
“Quick as I can.” Air whistled down the phone as he huffed through his nose , something he always did when he was pissed , a bull shown a red flag .
“Fine , but hurry up .
I’m getting hungry , ” and he hung up .
Serenity hurried down the road toward her stop , praying the bus wouldn’t take long to arrive .
To her relief , the big blue bus trundled down the road toward her and she broke into a trot , ignoring her protesting ribs , desperate not to miss this one .
Making it in plenty of time , she joined the line .
There was no hint of the panic attack she had suffered earlier at this same close proximity of a crowd .
Strangely , she felt better within herself , as if the nugget of hope she had stored within herself fed her strength .
She flashed her travel card at the driver who barely bothered to check .
Passengers filled all of the seats so she grabbed hold of one of the standing poles .
With her free hand , Serenity fingered the thin silver necklace nestled at her throat , the letter ‘S’ hanging from the chain .
The necklace was the only present she’d ever received from her mother and she rubbed the cool metal like a good luck charm whenever she grew nervous , which was often .
As the bus pulled away , she caught something out of the corner of her eye .
She swung her head around and peered through the bus window .
It was as though her eyes sought him out through the crowds , like some part of her deep down knew exactly where to look , exactly where to find him .
For there , on the other side of the street in the shadows of a doorway , stood the man who had tried to help .
Watching her .
Chapter Two Serenity arrived home over an hour late .
Standing outside her front door , she couldn’t help but admire the little duplex despite the person within .
Though the yard was small , she spent what free time she had keeping the window boxes pretty and the space tidy .
Jackson’s father died a few years earlier , leaving Jackson a good sum of money and astonishing Serenity , who assumed the man would have drunk any savings away .
With his inheritance , Jackson bought the two bed duplex in Glendale , a decent district of LA .
She put the key in the lock and , like a teenager sneaking home from a late night party , turned it as quietly as possible .
The door opened with a click .
“How much ? ” “Dinner for both of us and fifty bucks too , I bet.” “Is dinner your booking fee ? ” She smiled .
I couldn’t see it in the dark , but I knew she wore that little gapped-tooth grin .
She helped me to my feet and we balanced awkwardly for a minute as I dry heaved .
She reached up and wiped my mouth and chin before we started off .
Though small in stature her soul was bigger than any two people .
I remembered the first part and said , “Scared of what ? ” She didn’t say .
Didn’t have to , I could feel it .
Alone with the monsters in the dark , that’s what everyone 's afraid of .
I stumbled beside her with that kicking feeling in my left leg .
She helped to support me and guide me as I shook the cobwebs out .
Soon I’d be good for a few hours , maybe through until morning .
“How’d you know where I was ? ” “Jimenez said she saw you get a score from Beenie when she was working sixty-third .
I just checked every alley from Beenie’s spot to the apartment until I found you.” She sounded pretty proud of herself .
The apartment to which she referred was a room we shared in what aspired to be a slum .
Often no running water or electric , but it was dry .
We stopped a few times so that I could dry heave some more .
Slow going , weaving between the deeper puddles .
This wasn’t at all like flying .
She shepherded me to a late night café .
It was the nasty kind of place people like us could be served .
I saw my reflection in the big plate glass window coming up .
I had been radiant once .
Now my wet straw-colored hair hung greasy and limp , framing those high angelic cheekbones that used to drive the women wild .
Oh , what a different story my reflection told now .
Gaunt and haunted , I looked like every other burnout in the city .
Sarah looked a little better , but the dark eye make-up made her look more cheap than Gothy .
What a pair we made .
The smell of stale grease greeted us inside and no heads turned when the little bell above the door announced our arrival .
The woman I’d come to meet was sitting alone , pretty and young , swathed in a heavy coat .
We sat opposite her on the cracked vinyl seat of the booth , and she looked at Sarah , and then furtively at me .
She complained about how long she had waited and Sarah made an excuse .
Her soul was old and I saw a line from a poem I’d once read in her , something about wandering in eternal fear of falling into the indefinite .
She wouldn’t make eye contact and didn’t believe that I could really read her so I told her that .
“Is that all your magic ? ” she asked , a little flash in her chocolate brown eyes .
A corresponding glint of light caught as she breathed , just above the top button of her blouse .
A small gold cross on a chain rested at the little dip in the smooth flesh where the throat tucked in behind the collarbones .
“No , that’s the surface stuff .
Tell me what you want and we’ll see if I can reveal your inner most.” Sarah’s bony elbow nudged me .
“Be nice.” “How nice ? ” She didn’t answer .
She just looked at the pretty young woman and said , “This is Greg .
Like I told you before , he’s the guy that can tell if there really is anything funny going on with your dreams .
Greg , this is Maria.” “He looks like a drowned junkie.” I half-shrugged .
I suppose my appearance was an occupational hazard .
“Is that how you can see into the Santeria ?
Because you’re on the stuff ? ” “He’s okay now , it’s just cause of the rain , ” Sarah said .
Her tone was between placating and matter-of-fact , she didn’t want to jeopardize the deal .
“How long you been using ? ” She had a Latin accent .
Maybe Puerto Rican , I couldn’t tell .
“Heroin ? ” “Yeah.” Her hostility had an undercurrent of sadness .
Maybe it was the wisps of loss I saw in her soul .
“On and off since eighteen-ninety , I think .
Mostly on.” The young woman tucked a wayward strand of black hair behind an ear and gave a disbelieving cluck with her tongue .
“Like I said , Greg used to be an angel , ” Sarah whispered proudly .
Maria raised an eyebrow .
She didn’t believe .
“It’s true , he still grows little feathers where his wings used to be.” “What happened ?
You get demoted ? ” The cross flashed as Maria tucked her elbows close to her sides , like a boxer ready to deflect the body blows .
She looked into my eyes then .
Such sadness .
“Judged .
Judged and found wanting , with ninety-eight of my closest friends .
Believe me sister , that was a really bad day.” The waitress came over to take our order .
I saw the huddled tangles of unfulfilled dreams and fifty or so hard years there as she set the coffee pot on the table lip .
She laughed as she took my order and with nicotine-yellowed nails biting into the pencil stub , she scratched it onto the notepad .
She called me ‘Hon’ , took Sarah’s order and poured out the old smelling coffee before she moved on .
I held the mug against my face to warm my cheek and took a sip .
It was acrid but good enough that it made my stomach growl .
“The reading is fifty bucks on top of the meal , like we talked about , ” Sarah interrupted .
“Remember how he helped your friend , Jessica ?
With her dreams ?
So he can do the same for you .
Right” I didn’t remember a Jessica .
I usually didn’t remember any of them after I got a score though .
Except Sarah .
I couldn’t get her out of my head after that first time I read her .
Now she was my booking agent , and my best friend .
She and Milton , who Sarah had brought into my life .
Or was it the other way around ?
Maria nodded and pulled a billfold out of her thick wool coat .
She took out three dog-eared bills and rested them at the midpoint of the grime-covered table .
Such a trusting soul .
I laid both my hands out , palms up .
The sleeve of my overcoat pulled back to reveal blue veins , stark against my pale skin .
The veins traced up and disappeared into the elaborate tattooing on my forearms .
Marks that weren’t meant for human eyes , but were just too much trouble to keep covered .
Maria glanced down and the look she gave made me feel she thought them dirty .
She gently rested her two hands on top of mine .
They were small .
I ran my thumbs over the backs and she flinched a little , but did n't pull away .
Hard .
Sinewy .
She took care to use lotions and the skin was supple .
In another life maybe they 'd be the hands of a wool sorter .
Her dark eyes locked onto mine and I could see .
I closed my eyes quickly at the jolt of it .
I tasted copper and suppressed a shudder .
There was a hint of familiarity there in that strong soul .
It was an old soul indeed , a soul that could really make a difference .
The kind of soul a nether-worlder could really sink his teeth into .
She had paid for a show and that’s what I owed her .
His light brown hair had gotten shaggy , especially in the front where it nearly reached his matching light brown eyes .
He stretched his chin forward , tightening the skin around his jaw so it squared off by his ears .
It used to do that without his help , but lately his jawline had n't looked as trim .
Yet another thing that depressed him .
Months of disheartened languor were taking its toll .
He knew he was n't a bad-looking guy , but he did n't see anything special about himself , and he guessed high school girls did n't either .
He thought about how unfortunate it was that girls his age never went for the nice guy .
Luke could n't exactly complain since he had never lacked for a date , but the only girls who showed interest in him were popularity-hungry sycophants yearning to ingratiate themselves with Luke 's high-ranking friends .
Translation : girls willing to do whatever it took to secure a position in the popular clique .
Unfortunately for them ( and for Luke ) , Luke was n't the kind of guy who enjoyed being used , and he had never gone beyond second base with any of those social climbers .
Which meant he had never gotten beyond second base , period .
On his last night in Salem , though , he 'd hoped that would change .
Mandy Simpkins , a girl who rode his bus , and who Luke had harbored a slight crush on since third grade -- a smart and pretty girl who was anything but a sycophant -- had asked him to take a walk with her , and Luke anticipated a sweeping romantic evening he could carry with him to his certain loneliness in LeVir Lake .
As he and Mandy ambled along the four tree-lined blocks that separated their houses , their bodies drifted closer and closer to each other .
Luke 's arm kept brushing hers , and she did n't move away .
His spirits were lounging with the stars .
But then , just as Luke prepared to make a move , Mandy started talking about `` God 's Plan , '' and Luke 's interest in her vanished as if someone had flipped a switch .
She went on and on about how everything happened for a reason , and that moving from his hometown would help him grow into the person he was meant to be , and his dad was in a better place blah blah blah .
Luke ended the night by ditching Mandy on her front stoop and moping the four blocks home .
The next morning , his real friends -- who knew better than to bring up a scam like God , or even worse , fate -- brought him cold pizza and sent him on his melancholy way , promising to visit .
Luke knew this would n't happen , though .
Football training camp started in a week , and of course all of his friends had made the varsity team their sophomore year , leaving him behind ( even though he most likely would have made varsity , too , had he not quit sports when he was a freshman ) .
Luke pushed the memory out of his head .
He did n't want to feel sorry for himself anymore .
He lowered his eyelids and focused on Kitten 's charming voice .
But , wait a minute ... '' Shit , '' Luke slipped .
Lucy gasped .
`` Mom .
Luke said the S-word . ''
Lisa made eye contact in the rearview mirror .
`` Luke , do n't swear .
What 's wrong ? ''
`` Golly , Ma , my gosh-dern battery just wore out , doggone it . ''
`` Mom , '' Lena tattled , `` Luke 's being a smartass . ''
Lisa scowled at everyone in the backseat .
`` Luke , stop being a smartass .
And no more swearing from anyone . ''
A few minutes passed in miserable silence .
Luke tried restarting his music player , but it only held a charge for a few seconds , then it promptly died .
Luke yanked the ear buds from his ears and sulked , glaring through his hand at the persistent sunlight , blaming it for his troubles .
Lara interrupted the silence .
`` What 's that ? ''
Over the horizon , a forest blossomed out of the desert .
`` I bet that 's LeVir Lake , '' Lisa said .
Lucy asked , `` Where 's the lake ? ''
`` It does n't have to have a lake , doofus , '' Lara said .
`` It 's just a name . ''
`` Why would you name a town LeVir Lake if there is no lake ? ''
Lucy challenged .
Their mom intervened , `` Never mind the lake .
I ca n't even see the town .
Just trees and desert . ''
Lisa continued to follow the aged highway , driving closer and closer to the trees .
Luke craned his neck to see out the windshield .
The road headed straight toward the woods , but Luke did n't see any breaks in the trees where a car could enter .
Lisa continued to follow the road .
Luke was afraid she would follow it straight into a tree trunk , but the road veered left at the last second .
Lisa turned with it and drove alongside the woods .
Luke scanned the thick tree trunks , which extended at least ten feet into the air before disappearing behind branches .
The trees were so dense he could n't see past the front lines .
His eyes flicked from one tree to the next .
They did n't look like they belonged in the desert .
They almost looked like redwoods , which he thought only grew in the rainy Northeast .
How could trees like that survive out there in the dry heat ?
After a few minutes of driving with the woods on the right and the desert on the left , a small sign appeared .
It displayed a simple red arrow pointing right .
Lisa obeyed the instruction and turned onto a gravel road .
Trees bordered both sides of the car , seeming to inch closer , hugging the Wrights in an unwelcome bear grip .
Luke had never had problems with claustrophobia before , but he began to feel suffocated by the towering trunks .
A huge gate waited about a quarter of a mile in front of them .
Etched into an arch above the closed double gate , gothic letters spelled out `` LEVIR LAKE . ''
On either side of the gate , a wall just as tall as the gate constructed of glistening tan stone stretched into the trees as far as Luke could see .
`` What 's that ? ''
Lena asked , pointing at the gate .
`` There 's a drawing . ''
The SUV rolled to a stop just outside the gate .
Carved into the thick left side of the gate , a large , perfectly round circle adorned the stone .
To the right and diagonally down from the perfect circle was another , smaller circle circumferenced by shaky spikes .
`` It 's the moon and the sun , '' Luke deciphered .
`` The moon is the bigger circle , overpowering the sun . ''
`` I guess whoever designed that was a night owl , '' Lisa joked .
Nobody laughed .
Lisa cleared her throat .
`` All right , Mr. Interpreter , what does the other stuff mean ? ''
Starting to the right of the gate , a series of embossed panels illustrated a story .
The tale began with a man and woman holding a baby .
Behind them , an etched window displayed a total solar eclipse .
At the bottom of the panel , a faceless mass cowered .
Luke tried to distinguish the next segment of the story , but the trees obstructed his view .
He switched his gaze to the left side of the gate , where the last panel of the wall displayed a triumphant man .
`` It 's a story , '' Luke declared .
He pointed to the first panel .
`` It starts with a baby and ends with a hero . ''
He pointed at the last panel .
Lara scoffed .
`` A story that you can only see the beginning and end of is kind of pointless . ''
`` Not if you have a good enough imagination , '' Lena said .
`` Shut up . ''
Lisa ignored her children as she opened her power window with a mechanical whir .
She stuck her head out and examined the area outside her door .
She was even smiling and humming a happy song while she made her way from room to room offering blankets to the patients .
She felt good in her heart that she was actually doing something to help people in need .
She knew she could n't make friends with the patients but she was happy to help them none the less .
From floor to floor and hall to hall she would ask them if there was anything that she could do to make their stay more comfortable .
Most of the time she was either asked to turn on the television set in the room or to change the channels .
Every now and then she was asked to raise or lower the bed to make it more comfortable .
All she knew was that she was happy to help .
———— The Ambulance rolled in with lights flashing , sirens wailing , and screeching tires .
Two young paramedics jumped out and flung open the back door .
They rolled the gurney out as smoothly as they could while moving as fast as they were able .
One of the doctors met them at the door and asked what the patient 's symptoms were .
“Blurred vision , slurred speech , going from icy cold to burning hot , vomiting and diarrhea.” said the younger of the two paramedics .
The doctor escorted them all to an empty examination room , where they began by taking the old man 's temperature and blood pressure .
Whatever this illness was , it was new , so they ran a few tests to see what it was doing to his body .
They kept him in room 502 while they ran the different procedures and read the scans .
Something was attacking the man 's brain and nervous system .
Seconds turned to minutes and minutes turned to hours , and the patient 's breathing grew more labored .
———— Molly made her way to room 502 and knocked lightly on the door .
The patient , an older gentleman , was lying on the bed facing the door when she walked in .
`` Is there anything I can get for you to make you more comfortable ? ” she asked .
He sat up holding his stomach and said in a slurred voice , “I ca n't feel anything.” She thought he meant he was cold , so she gave him in a blanket .
`` So numb” he said .
She told him everything was all right and that he was in good hands , and she walked out the room .
The hospital staff found out too late that the virus was airborne , only after a few more patients were brought in with the same symptoms .
A nurse became sick , displaying the tell-tale signs of the virus .
The doctors advised patients and staff to wear face masks and to report any unusual symptoms as soon as they experienced them .
Meanwhile , in room 502 , the first patient was scratching at the flesh on his right arm .
When he broke the skin , he placed his cold lips to the cut and tasted blood for the very first time .
His eyes became as large as disks in the sockets ; and his pupils became so large that he looked like a cartoon character .
Like a wild animal , he ripped off a large chunk of flesh from his right arm and chewed it then swallowed it .
The nurse went to room 502 to find a pool of blood next to the hospital bed and a trail of blood leading to the bathroom .
She called down the hall for a doctor , and then went to the restroom door and gently knocked .
“Mr .
Hawkins are you OK in there sir ? ” she asked .
But the sounds she heard coming from the other side of the restroom door told her what she feared .
She heard teeth chattering , and whimpering .
The doctor rushed in the room and he flung open the door to find Mr. Hawkins bleeding from his arms and wrists .
At first they thought it was a suicide attempt , but after looking closer to the wounds they realized it was teeth marks in the flesh and by the time they saw Mr. Hawkins 's eyes it was too late .
He lashed out and bit the doctor on the neck and started to drink the warm blood which he found to be much tastier than his own cold blood .
He then took a couple of big chunks out of the doctor 's throat .
The doctor , unable to call for help , lay on the bathroom floor with blood spurting out of his wound like water from a garden hose .
He took his last breath as the nurse ran out of the room screaming in terror .
Molly was wearing her mask , but she noticed she was starting to feel some of the symptoms that the doctors had warned about .
Her shift was over , so she was making her way to the emergency entrance when she heard the nurse 's screams echo through the halls .
Frightened , she ran to her car , a silver four door Cadillac .
As she was leaving , another ambulance screeched to a stop .
Needless to say , it was going to be a very long and hellish night at the hospital .
Day 2 Police flooded the hospital .
The middle aged doctor lay in a large pool of blood in the bathroom of room 502 .
The nurse was in shock , sitting in the waiting room wrapped in a blanket .
It was 1:30AM and the patients with the new virus were quarantined away from the larger populations .
An officer shot Mr. Hawkins , and the body was moved directly to the morgue , where they could transfer him to a medical examiner to determine cause of death and perform more tests .
From the coldness of the body the medical examiner was able to tell that Mr. Hawkins had died somewhere between 12:30AM and 1:00AM .
“How can this be ? ” he asked himself aloud .
The patient had died before he was shot ; the examiner could also tell this from the blood .
The tests and examination did n't lie .
He reported his findings to the doctors on staff and told them to check on the other quarantined patients .
Doctors and nurses made their way to the quarantined section of the hospital .
What they found was what looked to be a massacre .
There were fingers and mangled pieces of flesh on the floor .
Blood was smeared all up and down the walls .
The smell in the air was unforgettable ; a metallic smell that must have been from all the blood .
The police were still in the building when they heard the screams of horror .
They rushed to the quarantined section to find the doctors and nurses surrounded by , for lack of a better term , zombies .
The cops immediately opened fire .
A couple of bodies dropped but at this time there were around forty wide eyed creatures and the cops were outnumbered .
One by one , screaming in the night , the not-so-healthy were joining the ranks of the undead .
———— Molly 's symptoms were getting worse .
She knew she needed help but with the scream still echoing inside her head she decided the hospital was not the best place for her to be .
She did n't wake up Danny when she went to bed , she just hoped that she would feel better later on in the day .
The clock rolled over to 5:30AM and Danny awoke to strange noises .
Not those of birds or passing cars but chattering and whimpers .
It was not like whimpering in pain , it was more like the sound of the need to do something , the way a dog whimpers to get outside to use the bathroom .
Danny turned to see Molly sitting up in bed , and she looked to be her licking her arm .
“Honey what 's the matter ? ” he asked .
She turned around and faced him , her lips blue and her teeth red .
“What the hell ? ” Danny leaned toward her to get a better look .
Her eyes were wild and she started screeching .
She jumped at Danny .
He was so freaked out by the blood he saw that he did n't realize she was out for his blood until the second time she snapped at him .
He grabbed her arm , which was covered in teeth marks .
He started to call her name , and then he realized she was not herself , and that he must fight if he wanted to live .
Molly came at Danny yet another time but Danny was ready and he pushed her to the floor .
He tried to run past her to call the cops but she grabbed his ankle and he tripped and fell hard onto the wooden floor .
He gained the upper hand by kicking her in the stomach .
He had never fought anyone in his life , and here he was fighting his undead wife for his life .
He ran into the bathroom and locked the door .
She was soon outside it , breathing heavy and wild , banging on it and making chattering sounds with her teeth .
Danny looked all around the room to see what he could find as a weapon to defend himself .
The fact that he was going to have to kill his wife started to sink in .
He felt an intense pain in his gut , and he found it hard to swallow .
He looked under the sink and found a large wrench that he had used to tighten the water valves on the toilet .
It 's do or die he thought to himself as he raised the wrench above his head and shoved the door open with his free hand .
He knocked Molly to the floor and gave her a good whack to the temple .
She went down , never to come up again .
Danny started shaking and crying uncontrollably .
The reality that he killed his wife , his high school sweet heart , his better half , his best friend , started to sink in .
He hurried to the phone and dialed 911 .
All he heard on the other line was static , hissing and buzzing .
The line was dead .
The whole thing pisses me off .
Enough of that drama .
This morning before school and all night , ever since I got home from school , I 've had to watch Lucy mope and whine .
It sucks but she 's going to have to learn that 's how people are .
I 've been following the rat die-off in Asia , the spread is unbelievably fast .
Still nothing on the local news or the national news .
Where before the big cable news stations barely said two sentences about it , now they say three sentences .
The only reason they talk about it , I think , is so they can show a couple of pictures of a field of dead , rotting mice .
In the three days since I wrote about the disease , it has spread from the Ural Mountains to the Bering Sea .
From Indonesia and the Philippines through India and into all the `` Stans '' ( Pakistan , Afghanistan , Turkmenistan , Kazakhstan and all the rest ) .
Natural borders do n't seem to do anything but slow it down for a day .
It jumps mountains , oceans and seas like they were speed bumps .
It has to be airborne .
Nobody who is looking into this knows for sure just how far it has spread in reality .
By the time the rats and mice die , it means that at least forty-eight or so hours have passed .
It means that the disease ( or whatever it is ) , is actually two days or more ahead of the corpses .
By now it probably has reached Europe and may have even reached the Americas .
Except for the handful of independent researchers trying to study this , nobody cares .
In fact the consensus with most governments is that this is almost welcomed .
The few people looking into this are saying that they wo n't even be able to figure what is causing this due to lack of money , labs and personnel for months .
It may be a year or more , they say , before they can isolate and properly identify what is happening .
Friday , August 24 , 2012 I 'm sure the people who rejoice and say , `` Thank God it 's Friday .
`` , never went to this High School .
Every class loads me up on homework , including yours Mrs. Johnson .
A five hundred word short story , on top of this two hundred and fifty word entry , plus a couple of hours for each of my other five classes means at least another ten hours of work I have to cram in my weekend .
This is on top of my having to take care of my ten year old sister .
My mother works the afternoon shift and on weekdays it 's not so bad , as I only have to watch and feed her for a couple of hours until she returns .
Saturday 's and Sunday 's I have to watch her for most of the day , unless my mom lucks out and gets her single day off on a weekend day .
Lucy is still moody about the theft of her bike .
She 's been difficult and picky about everything , making me cranky .
I hope she snaps out of it soon .
If she keeps being like this for much longer I 'm going to rip my hair out .
Some girl 's my age talk about having a big family when they get out of school .
I , however , do n't plan on getting pregnant for quite a long time , if at all .
I sure do n't want to spend the next ten years of my life changing diapers and wiping snotty noses after having a litter of children .
So ends the more personal section of my journal .
Now on to my continuing coverage of World events .
People are getting sick , manifesting flu like symptoms .
The reports are coming in from the same places the rat death started .
The new `` Rat Flu '' is following the same dispersal pattern and rapid spread as whatever caused the rats to die off .
Hospitals and medical centers in South Korea and southern China are flooded with the sick .
There is no news from North Korea , there is never any news from that country so it 's not surprising .
Now the CDC has finally decided to start investigating .
If they would have started investigating this sooner they would have had that much of a head start .
The local news has started talking about the Rat-flu now , mainly saying that it 's the start of the flu season and to `` Get your flu shots now . ''
My question is how can I get a flu vaccination against a disease that nobody has identified yet .
From what I understand vaccinations are only good against that single virus it was created for .
Nobody has even isolated the thing yet and we do n't even know if it’s caused by a virus .
But here the government is , once again , offering hollow words to placate the voters .
Only the national news and cable news stations are speaking of the rat die-off and the new flu , but they speak of them like they 're two separate things .
I believe they 're linked , just as many others around the world do .
Since the last journal entry the mass extinction of the rodents is steam rolling along .
The rat plague is in Europe now , as far west as Belgium .
It has shown up in Egypt and Australia .
Currently the disease has ventured into Alaska and spots along the Pacific coast of Canada .
If the sickness spreads among humans like it has in the rodent population , ( and all the evidence points to this ) , then this is easily going to be the most contagious disease in recorded history .
For all anyone knows , this new disease could already be here .
We could already be infected .
We do n't know what the incubation period for this is .
For all we know , we may have been infected up to a month ago .
The bright side to this is that there are no confirmed deaths related to the mystery disease .
My prediction is within a week there 's going to be a lot of students staying home .
Monday , August 27 , 2012 My mom had to put in extra hours at the hospital over the weekend , preparing for the influx of sick people that will soon arrive like a flood .
According to my mom , every flu-season sends a ton of patients into the system and this one is going to be bad .
The Hospital , all the hospitals , are bracing for a huge wave of individuals who are going to contract the new disease .
From what my mom says , the new sickness is n't deadly but it is very contagious .
The doctors expect that up to ninety percent of the population will develop the flu like symptoms .
The very old and very young are at risk , as are those with compromised immune systems .
They say there will be more deaths because of this , just like with any other flu but because this is so widespread , the numbers will be greater ( but the percentage will be comparable to other flu strains ) .
The media has officially dubbed this strain the `` Rat flu '' .
The subject is suddenly all over the news now , driving a slight panic and causing cold and flu medications sales to rise dramatically .
The CDC has named this new virus their number one priority .
Although there is debate about whether or not this is actually caused by a virus .
Within a week the CDC promises to identify this new strain and will then begin working on a vaccine .
That means the first of the real vaccines will be available for the public by the end of next month .
That may be too late .
The disease is spreading faster than the rat die off .
The `` Great rat death '' is showing up worldwide now .
It has firmly established itself in the new world covering all of Canada , Mexico and the U.S. to the Mississippi river .
South America and the eastern U.S. have isolated outbreak areas .
The spread of the infection no longer follows the outbreak pattern of the rat die-off .
At first it did , but now it starts to rear its ugly head wherever the rodent death shows up .
Does this mean the illness has mutated ?
Maybe .
Maybe we are infected already , it could have silently spread around the world a month or more ago and it 's just now manifesting itself .
Either way , thank the Gods it 's not a particularly deadly strain .
This may be something new , something never seen before .
The evidence for this is the contagion is n't specialized or limited to one family or species of mammal .
It is making all the mammals sick .
Reptiles are immune to this it seems .
No mammal , big or small , seems to have any real immunity at all .
Animals all over the world are affected , catching the illness at the same time people do .
People are reacting strangely to this .
Psychologists say it 's the difference between the known and the unknown .
Whereas before , with other flu strains , people could walk around thinking `` I probably wo n't get sick . ''
Now people are fretting about the fact that they almost certainly will get sick .
Everybody , including the kids in school are wearing latex gloves and wearing masks over their nose and mouths .
Everyone is using anti-bacterial hand sanitizer and are generally trying to do anything they can to minimize their exposure .
It seems , even knowing that all their precautions wo n't stop them from getting sick , they do it anyways .
Myself , I take a `` come what may '' attitude .
It’s asking for me to surrender my dignity and he’s going to hand it to them with a grin on his face .
Asshole .
Maybe if I crap myself they’ll just put me in the special wing with the crazies and the vegetables .
I can stay drugged and get sponge baths from the young nurses until I pass away .
One lousy fall down the front steps and an old man is doomed to the linger-longer .
Wait a minute , who is this ?
She’s tall , with her brown hair tied into a messy bun and she has smart-glasses on .
I love the brainy ones .
Her name tag says ‘Williams’ if my eyes don’t deceive and is pinned to a silky blue blouse which to my utter joy is undone one button too far .
Must be the boss-lady .
“Hello all !
I 'm Dr. Williams .
You must be the Aldridges .
How can I help you today ? ” “I could use a prostrate exam if you don’t mind .
It’s a little chilly , but if it’s got ta be here , it’s got ta …” “Dad ! ” Bill is such a pussy .
I’m just trying to break the ice here is all .
I’ve got to live with these people .
“It’s quite all right , ” Dr. Williams says to him , “Spirited , aren’t we Mr. Aldridge ? ” to me .
She does n't even hint at a smile .
I think she wants me .
Who wouldn’t ?
There’s nothin’ sexier than a pissed off septuagenarian .
“I can be if you like .
Not as good as I once was , but as good once as I ever was.” I wink at her .
Her lip curls up into the slightest of smiles , and just as I’d hoped , my dick curls right along with it .
As good once as it ever was .
Joyous , I wink at Bill .
“Dad ! ” “Just like to see that hair down around those shoulders , ” I say .
“Dad ! ” he shrieks again .
Pussy .
Well , we’ve established he knows who I am .
Now if he’d just show some respect and take me home .
“Its fine , ” she says to him .
“Maybe , Mr. Aldridge , if you pay attention and behave , I’ll wear my hair down one day.” Now I get it .
She’s playing me , a tease who likes to rev the old man’s engine just to watch me squirm .
Either way this is the closest I’ve been to sex in better than four years .
The doctor continues , “You gentlemen can call me Jan.” She holds out her hand and I shake it gladly .
Long thin fingers , well manicured nails and no wedding band .
I might could live here after all .
I introduce us since he was busy gawking at her cleavage .
Can’t knock him for that .
“Jimmy .
This is my son , Bill .
We aren’t speaking right now .
You can tell him I said ‘Go to hell’.” I wo n't talk to that prick .
These dizzy spells won’t make me forget he’s putting me here to die .
It’s just as well .
I couldn’t live with him or his prude wife .
She has a huge ass and a constant look of disapproval on her face .
Jan smiles , looking at Bill .
“I’m sure he gets the message .
Shall we take the tour ?
The rest of this paperwork can wait.” I nod and notice Bill take another look at her breasts .
Dumbass .
If I taught him anything , it was 'do n't get caught staring ' .
If I noticed , surely she did .
I hope she doesn’t think he gets his stupidity from me .
That definitely comes from his mother’s side .
She was a brilliant angel , God rest her—eight years she’s been gone—but the men in that family ?
Dense as forged steel .
“Which side is the produce on ? ” I ask .
That one startles her .
She turns , ready to scold me , and I’m just glad she gets the joke .
That means we have similar senses of humor , even if she plays offended .
Plus , I could use a good spanking .
“They are people , Mr. Aldridge .
They may be worse off than you are physically , but most of them are mentally superior .
Of that I’m certain.” Touché .
I knew him lookin’ at her tits was going to ruin things for me .
Then again , she could fasten one more button and those things wouldn’t be staring back at everyone .
“Right , right , people .
I know .
I would just prefer to stay with folks who can still rock n’ roll if you know what I mean ? ” Her stern look softens a little and that wry smile is back .
“I understand .
It does take some getting used to , but rest assured , you will be living on the rockin’ side of the house .
At least for now.” This sounds like sarcasm .
I like sarcasm .
I’m also smart enough to know this tour may be the longest amount of time I’ll ever spend with the luscious Dr. Jan Williams .
I watch her hind end wave as she walks and don’t care what she says , but I get her drift .
The nickel tour wanders through a building that is shaped like a capital E. The bottom of the E being the produce department , and the place I will avoid like a fat girl at the prom .
The center line of that E is where the entrance and public area are located and the top line is for those of us who are here because our kids suck .
There is a courtyard where the residents ( I say convicts ) can get some fresh air , away from the stink , and a dining room which resembles a prison mess hall or a high school cafeteria only with none of the joy or raging hormones .
I personally can’t wait to watch them spoon feed the cabbages .
“And this , Mr. Aldridge ... ” “Jimmy , ” I interrupt .
I despise 'mister ' .
Sounds formal .
I 'm not fuckin ' formal .
“Okay…Jimmy .
This will be your room .
You’ll be alone here for now , but roommates are sometimes a necessity .
My advice is to find someone here you’re compatible with and pair up .
We’re quite accommodating with those assignments.” Accommodating .
That is a word I enjoy associating with the lady doctor .
As I’m dreaming of her in skimpy lingerie , my miserable son chimes in with a laugh .
“Compatible with him ? ” he says .
She gives him eyes for the interruption and he clams up like a scolded child .
Sheesh .
“As I was saying , that might be somewhat easier than having a stranger assigned to you.” “Is there a woman like you I could shack up with ? ” Silence , but I can feel my son’s eyes growing wide and bulging .
Her face is stone .
“I’ll take my chances.” Grinning , I turn to show her my good side .
`` Why do you have to be such a prick ?
Ca n't you just try and get along with the guy ? ''
`` It’s good for him . ''
Wes said , shouldering his sawed off .
`` The little runt needs to grow some balls . ''
`` Grow some balls ? ''
Terry interjected .
`` The man killed three grunts today .
I say he 's got more balls than just about anyone I know .
Including you , Turner . ''
Wes blew him off with a wave and headed down the hall toward the front door .
`` I 'll buy him an ice cream cone if it will make you feel better !
Seriously Terry , lighten up ! ''
he yelled behind him .
`` What a jerk , '' Terry said to no one in particular .
`` Yeah , no shit , '' John sighed .
`` Come on amigo .
Let’s go home . ''
`` Charlie , grab the rest of our gear and let’s get the hell out of here , '' Terry motioned to the three bags of supplies lying on the floor .
Charlie nodded then picked up the heavy bags , slinging them over his shoulders .
The mood a little more somber than it had been just minutes before , John and Terry , with Charlie lugging their supplies in the rear , headed for the open front door .
They were just in view of the stack of blackened , still smoking vampire skulls on the other side of the open front door , when John heard what he could have sworn was a little girl giggle .
`` Terry , did you hear .
.” he turned his head and felt something warm and wet splash across the back of his neck .
He reached back with his left and brought back a gloved hand covered in blood .
“What the hell ? ” he said , turning completely around .
Terry Williams stood swaying , a fountain of blood gushing from the large gaping hole that had once been his neck .
Charlie , who had been walking directly behind him , was covered in blood .
He dropped the three bags and began wiping frantically at his eyes with his gloved hands .
“What is this ? ! ''
he screamed out in horror .
`` What .
what just happened ? ! ''
Wes and Ben , who had been waiting outside came charging back in , guns ready when they heard Charlie scream .
They stopped short when they saw Terry’s still swaying , headless body .
Almost in slow motion , the body dropped to the floor in front of them .
Though his head had been removed , his heart continued to pump , sending a spray of bright red blood from the gaping hole where his head had resided mere seconds before .
The massive double bladed battleaxe he had been carrying dropped with a resounding thud , cracking one of the tiles on the floor .
The fingers on his left hand flexed back and forth as if grasping for it .
The fingers of his right were wrapped tightly around his most coveted weapon , one of a pair of Roman short swords still sheathed at his belt .
In a daze , John looked up into darkened hole that had suddenly appeared in the cracked ceiling above them .
He heard Ben yell out something he couldn’t quite make out then point his shotgun at the ceiling .
The gun boomed in his hands , sending buckshot flying into whatever monster lay in wait above .
A half second later , the echo of Wes’s sawed off twelve gauge followed .
In a blind panic , Charlie fired wildly with his .357 sending bullets wildly into the hallway behind them .
John stood in a trance , his eyes unable to leave the sight of Terry’s splintered spine sticking up from between his shoulders .
He had known the man his entire life ; they had been best man at each other’s weddings .
Now all that was left of him was a headless corpse lying on the dirty white tile of an abandoned house somewhere in the Kansas countryside .
“John ! ” he heard Ben yell from a million miles away .
“John !
Snap out of it ! ” A hard backhanded slap from Wes Turner broke him from his trance .
“Come on , Big John !
We need you buddy ! ” He cracked open his sawed off removing the empties and filled it with two slugs from the bandolier strung across his chest .
John nodded dumbly .
Finally coming back to his senses he leveled the big ten gauge in his hands and put five rounds of buckshot into the ceiling .
The severely wounded form of a teenage male grunt , crashed through the crumbling ceiling , landing on top of Terry’s body .
The holes in its head and body already beginning too slowly regenerate .
Smoke poured off its skin as the sunlight from the open front door hit it .
It roared out in pain and anger and tried to push itself off Terry but grew distracted by the sight and smell of so much blood .
It began lapping at it like a dog , sucking up the bright liquid as quickly as it could .
Though his revolver was long since empty , Charlie continued to pull the trigger at the downed beast , the hammer clicking on empty chambers .
Both Ben and Wes were reloading their weapons , their hands shaking uncontrollably .
Running on pure adrenaline , John jerked the Roman short sword from the scabbard on his dead friend’s belt and stabbed it through the monster’s chest , punching through its hardened skin and slicing through its heart .
Then he yanked up Terry’s battleaxe and with one chop severed its head .
Wes tossed his shotgun aside and with one hand hefted the dead vampire off Terry’s body , throwing it like a ragdoll across the room where it crashed into the wall .
“My God .
Terry .
.” Ben whispered , his voice expressing the pain they all felt .
That could have been me !
John cried out in his mind , instantly shamed by how selfish that sounded .
Julia .
Jake .
what am I doing here ?
That could have been me !
Jake’s barely three years old and I could have orphaned him just now !
Ben had to shake Charlie to get him to stop pulling the trigger on his empty gun .
Wes angrily punted the dead vampire’s head out the front door where it burst into flames as the sun hit it .
John dropped to his knees next to his friend’s lifeless body , tears stinging his eyes .
“Oh Terry .
.” '' Where the hell is his head ? ''
Wes Turner said , looking around the room .
“What do you mean ? ” Ben asked , his body shaking with shock .
“You just kicked it out the door.” “No , not his , ” Wes answered solemnly .
“Terry’s .
It isn’t here.” John placed his hand on his friend’s bloodied , broken body , tears streaming down his cheeks .
In that moment all he could think of was his son’s tiny form bouncing on his knee .
My God .
Outside , they stood around the fire pit that had just devoured the last of the vampire’s leg meat .
Bits of white and black bone lumps were left behind .
Starr watched Chanler’s handsome face .
Keenly , she remembered the last time they were together .
He was sweet to her ; he held her hand , talked to her .
She wondered if he thought about her in the short time they’d been a part .
Then a short brunette with a round face came up and whispered something to him .
His response was to kiss her and put his arm around her .
If there was still pressure behind the blood that rested in her veins , it would have fallen .
They must have felt her scathing gaze because , suddenly , both their eyes flicked at her .
Starr stared back , defiantly .
“We don’t have time for much , so I’m just gon na drop you right in it , ” Alin said , distracting her from Chanler and the woman .
“Someone set us up on our last mission to Ukraine.” “Yeah , I figured that when I saw them use your so-called Big Fire before you’d left .
How did you make it out ? ” “We made it back inside the hotel right after you left .
Saul discovered the bodies of the other Fleet members ; they were dead on the bathroom floor .
It was then we figured the Ukranians , and traitors among us , had set us up .
We stood there , putting these clues together , and the next thing we knew , we were under a pile of rubble.” “I saw them napalm you guys , ” Starr said .
“When I got back to the Council , I tried to speak to Blakely , but some guy insisted that I leave.” “Everyone there is dead ; no one’s left .
They were probably already dead by the time you’d landed , and the Ukranians are gone without a trace.” Starr’s chest tightened .
If the Council was gone , then there was no more world police .
Such news made the threat of apocalypse seem more likely .
Her natural instinct , in the face of bad news , was to think Alin must have been mistaken .
But he was the best telepath in the Fleet .
He heard her thoughts and said , “I’m not lying , Starr .
When we got there , our friends were dead.” “So there is no one to stop this thing , then ? ” “There aren’t enough of us left.” “Why did you come here , then ?
Why not go into hiding ? ” “After we use the Big Fire , we always comb the area and see what’s left , what still needs to be destroyed , and if there’s anyone we need to help , ” Saul said .
“As we inspected the town , we happened by the post office , from where a strange pheromone emanated .
It was the same scent of these new vampires , only a thousand times stronger .
We dug through and found pieces of cardboard boxes that had the scent all over it , and though the packages they were attached to were destroyed , we were able to determine , by their scent , that they came from Boston .
Since Credenza was last seen in Boston , the night she killed Levi…” “You figure whoever started this mess could be there ? ” she interrupted .
“One thing we know is the first signs of trouble started when people were making deliveries into Fedir Postal Service , ” said Chanler .
“Workers disappeared , and then showed up hungry , crazed and vamped out .
We think the devil has spread test tube vampirism by mail.” “Why does their smell disturb other vampires ? ” “We can’t be sure of why , ” said Alin .
“But on some level , I think our inner demon is telling us there is something wrong with these new vampires ; that they’re a dangerous to us.” “Okay , so why are you here ?
Why aren’t you out there , finding Credenza ?
She’s supposed to be the strongest , isn’t she ? ” “We’re all that’s left of the Fleet , which is why we need your help.” “I’m not leaving my friends , here , alone.” “Unfortunately , Starr , we’re to bring you with us , whether you like it or not .
Credenza left us specific instructions that , if anything should happen to her , we are to find you and protect you.” “How is dragging me into the middle of this fight , protecting me ? ” “It’s not , but we need all the help we can get .
We can’t just invite anyone into our fold .
For some reason , Credenza trusts you .
Besides , if you can help us end this attempt at taking over the world , why would you stay here and do nothing ? ” “This is the last time ! ” she said angrily .
“Next time , I don’t care if the sky is falling , don’t come calling , here ! ” She stomped back inside and changed into some old black jeans and a sweater .
All she kept saying , over and over again the last few weeks , was that she wanted the Council to leave her alone , but every time she turned around , there they were , in her face .
“Starr , ” Marla and Mica walked in without knocking .
“You’re not actually leaving ? ” “I have no choice ! ” she snapped .
“These jerks insist on dragging me into everything , it seems ! ” She slammed her weapons on the bed ; then buckled a work belt around her waist and tied the ruby studded sickles to it , followed by the silver nunchucks that Antony gave her before she beheaded him .
Next , she hung her two favorite back up machetes : good for skull slicing and cavity gutting .
Around her neck , she fastened a long leather cloak that covered the weapons , and in which she stashed a couple switchblades .
“Starr , I don’t like it .
We need you here ! ” “I know , Marla , ” she said and sighed .
Starr strapped her long black hair into a pony tail .
“I don’t want to go , but if it’s gon na help put an end to this , then I should .
You have Lucenzo , though .
He’s old and strong .
I think you’ll be fine.” Then she walked out into the hall .
Lucenzo leaned against the wall watching .
“Take care of them , ” she said to him .
“Tell Lily I’ll be back.” The Fleet members were already in the helicopter , waiting .
~~~ An hour and a half later , they lowered down into the parking lot of a Home Depot .
Starr was amazed to see that things were just as bad , there , as they were in the city .
Every window of the shopping strip had been broken into , and their displays emptied and destroyed .
“What are we doing here ? ” asked Starr .
“Why not just start at Lucenzo’s house and track her from there.” “We want to stop at the post office .
That way I can confirm , for sure , that the virus was sent from here , ” said Alin .
He started walking north .
Starr and the others followed .
She caught up to him and asked , “How do you know it didn’t come from the other side of the Atlantic ? ” “It’s just a hunch .
We don’t have great leads , and since Credenza went missing here , it just makes sense to check it out.” “Do you have any idea of how old , or how many vampires , we could be up against ? ” “No , so we have to be careful .
There are several old families here , and they like to be left to their own devices .
They only reveal themselves to those they have real connections with or have need of .
More importantly , their hearts have hardened over the centuries .
Since they come from a time where nearly everyone was barbaric , and they’ve had their humanity scrubbed at by vampirism , then you can imagine some clans are extremely savage .
Now if any one of these families should have something to do with these outbreaks , then we could be looking at one hell of a fight.” They walked a few blocks , on which there was not a single sign of another human being .
“Stop , I hear something , ” Alin suddenly said .
In the emptied jewelry store to their right , a man screamed out .
Starr looked in remotely and saw that a woman ripped into his gut .
The woman pulled back her clamped on jaw , and his flesh burst in half .
Behind the man was an open wall safe .
He must have come to get something , and was ambushed .
Starr made to go over and help , but Alin grabbed her and said , “Stop .
He’ll die , no matter what .
We need to keep going.” They crossed the following intersection and were horrified to see six vampires tearing into another freshly turned vampire who wailed and growled .
One vampire took his arm ; the other ripped out his leg and chomped down .
A few of them turned and ran at them .
Starr was about to pull out her machetes , but the man , who called himself James , quickly shot them in the head .
They dropped to ground .
He continued to shoot the other four , and the one they were eating , in their heads , too .
“That way , ” Saul said and pointed to a building on the corner .
They followed him inside the Boston Postal branch .
Inside , Starr’s stomach contracted , tightly , for that same cinnamon-like smell enriched the air .
Chanler’s girlfriend , Michelle , picked up a blank envelope that was lying on the floor .
She pulled a blank piece of paper out of it .
“Ugh , ” she said and gagged .
“Why is it so nasty ? ” “Let me see , ”Alin said .
“There’s a familiar scent on it .
Sari , take a whiff.” He tossed the paper to him .
“It’s latex glove .
Whoever planted this knew that scent would throw us off his or her track.” “So , what do you think ? ” asked James .
“I’m really not sure , ” Alin answered .
“There’s nothing we can do , ” said Emil in a light Swiss accent .
“There aren’t any real leads.” “That’s not true .
But these are fake , ” he leaned up close to Tomas’ face and clicked his bright white teeth together .
“One good thing about working for a pharmaceutical company , they have excellent dental .
These are drilled right into my jaw bone with steel posts , better than the real ones.” Tomas nodded and threw some flattery his way , “Well , you look half your age with that tan .
How many hearts have you broken down here in So Cal ? ” Andy drank it in then lightly punched Tomas in the arm when he realized he was being pandered to .
He rubbed his hands together and looked towards the carousel , “How many bags you got ?
We need to hurry .
I have to drop you off and get to the office .
I’m on the night shift these days .
You’re going to be on your own quite a bit while you’re here .
Something important is going down at the facility and everyone’s pulling overtime .
But I’m sure you won’t mind .
It’ll give you some time to chase the foxy ladies.” They waited a while until the carousel began to turn .
Tomas’ backpack was the second piece of luggage through .
Andy drove a fifteen-year-old pearl white Roadmaster .
It was a behemoth , one of those automobiles built for the WWII generation who coveted the styling of tank-like autos from the nineteen fifties .
Andy was in his late fifties , but driving a car meant for his parent’s generation made him look that much older .
They cruised along I-5 towards La Jolla at a brisk ninety miles per hour , a rate dictated by the speeding traffic around them , the dynaride suspension making it feel as though they were riding on giant marshmallows .
The vehicle reeked of stale cigarettes and Tomas had to lean against his open window to catch outside air streaming through so he wouldn’t gag .
Andy had this peculiar habit of smoking two or three drags off a cigarette then snubbing it out and lighting another .
In the ashtray below the climate controls , reeking half-smoked menthols were stuffed tightly together like candles on a centenarian’s birthday cake .
And there were half-empty packs strewn across the floor and half-empty forgotten cartons strewn across the backseat amid checked ties , gym shoes and fast food wrappers .
Tomas noticed a couple butts from ladies slims with smears of lipstick on the tip in the ashtray of the passenger side armrest .
Andy’s been randy , Tomas thought .
Smoking wasn’t the only bad habit that Andy had .
Andy had been living alone for two decades and had developed unconscious behaviors and ticks extremely irritating to anyone sitting with him in confined quarters .
Tomas listened as Andy sucked air through his teeth repeatedly like a high pressure toothpick , then murmur and cackle , glance over at Tomas when he realized that he’d made a noise , then grab the arm of his aviator sunglasses and bob them up and down on his nose .
Truth be told , Tomas loved his father , but these annoying ticks were a significant factor why Tomas always found an excuse to say ‘no’ when his father invited him to stay down in San Diego .
He hadn’t been down to visit for eight years .
The guilt of his selfishness bubbled to the surface for a moment when Tomas thought about how lonely Andy’s life must be .
“Remember when you used to think that was Disneyland ? ” Andy asked , nodding towards the gaudy Mormon temple looming menacingly over the side of the San Diego freeway .
“Now I think it looks like Superman’s fortress of solitude , ” Tomas replied , knowing it would please his father .
Andy slapped his leg and laughed his crazy hee-haw laugh .
Traffic began to grow thicker .
Andy shifted lanes to the far right one and when the rest of the cars slowed to a crawl , he eased onto the shoulder and kept driving , oblivious of the fist shaking and obscene gestures from the drivers stuck in the masses too law-abiding and sane to try such a maneuver .
His father was the most reckless driver he’d ever know .
Tomas gripped the armrest and leaned forward slightly to check the tension of his seatbelt .
It was a miracle Andy had held onto his license all this time .
He knew if he popped open the glove compartment there would be a stack of tickets ranging from minor traffic violations to reckless driving .
The Sorrento Valley exit appeared and the Roadmaster glided off the freeway .
Instead of turning right towards I-805 and Mira Mesa as Tomas remembered , Andy went left , explaining as he turned , “May as well show you where I work.” It only took a minute or two until they were thick inside an industrial park .
Tomas watched as they drove past nondescript buildings made for car wholesalers and chemical plants , plastic furniture manufacturers and auto collision specialists .
Andy turned onto a side street .
The road was empty until they reached the end .
Hunkered down at the bottom of the cul-de-sac was an imposing red brick wall topped with razor wire and an iron wrought gate in the center .
There were no guards , but there were two poles positioned on each side of the gate with three industrial strength security cameras mounted on the top and sides .
Through the gate , the road disappeared down a hill .
All Tomas could see were four identical roof tops bunched together , their style similar to the non-descript buildings back along Sorrento Valley Road .
To the right of the gate there was a small bronze sign that said , “Vitura Pharmaceuticals , Inc.” “There it is , one head of an enigmatic and powerful beast , ” Andy chuckled conspiratorially as he turned the Roadmaster around the cul-de-sac and back towards the main road .
He pantomimed zipping his lips together , “If I had a nickel for every time they remind me about the company’s confidentiality clause…” “Why , what’s the big deal ? ” Tomas asked .
“What do they do in there ?
Have they discovered the cure for cancer or are they creating bio-weapons for the government ? ” “Something along those lines is definitely in the works , ” Andy replied mysteriously .
“So , want to grab a burger before we get home ?
We can hit the IN-N-OUT drive up near the apartment.” “Sure.” Tomas hadn’t eaten since his breakfast with Jan that morning .
He’d begged her to meet at their favorite café in Stanley Park .
‘The least you could do is see me before I go , ’ he’d said knowing she’d feel guilty if she didn’t .
She’d reluctantly agreed though they were still on the outs at the conclusion of the meal .
The breakfast was uneventful and bland .
Jan had sat there stone-faced , eating a dry blueberry muffin then insisting on splitting the bill before she sped off in her jeep .
With a sack of burgers in hand , Tomas sat patiently while Andy navigated through the maze of apartments that were Majestic Estates .
When Tomas used to visit his father as a child , he used to think of Majestic Estates as a sunny paradise of endless cobalt skies and swim parties .
These days , however , the two story apartments were showing their age ; web-like cracks spidering up the blue-tinted walls , the rusted rain gutters hanging limply along the roofline .
Andy read his expression , “Management doesn’t give a damn about the condition of the place , just collecting rent checks and enforcing eviction notices .
You remember Belle from 8B ?
They threw her out on her ear when she got behind after emergency hip surgery .
Real shame .
She was a couple months away from qualifying for Medicare when she fell .
A real shame.” They passed the central swimming pool , once the jewel of the complex and now empty , the bottom coated in a brownish slime .
Tomas prodded his father , “So why don’t you move ?
You have to be making enough to afford better than this place .
You could be nearer the coast , away from the constant roar of those insufferable military planes .
Yeah , I remember the planes.” But Andy was very sensitive about his financial affairs .
Back in the day he was making six figures as an engineer .
That was before computers and the internet took over and ol’Andy had failed to keep up .
Pagers and XP were the height of his technological savvy .
“Let’s just say that my money is tied up in investments , ” he replied .
They pulled up next to Andy’s block .
He shut off the engine , pulled the keys out of the ignition and took the apartment key off the oversized key ring , “I’m running late , Tommy .
Go ahead and make yourself at home .
Probably want to stay in for the night .
This area has gotten dangerous after dark .
There’s a six pack in the fridge .
Have a few , I won’t tell your mom .
I’ll see you in the morning.” Tomas took the key , hesitating for a moment , “It’s good to see you again , Andy.” Andy’s face softened and he smiled warmly with those big artificial teeth , “You too , son .
I’ll try to get back around eight and we’ll have breakfast on O .
B. Pier like we used to .
Run along now.” A musty smell of bachelor living mixed with household cleaning supplies wafted out the door as Tomas entered the two-bedroom flat .
It was obvious from the hint of ammonia and bleach that Andy had spent most the afternoon cleaning up for his arrival .
Tomas tossed the sack of burgers onto the circular glass dining table and walked down the short hallway to his former weekend bedroom from back when his parents shared custody .
He opened the door and was stunned to discover that everything was in the same place he’d left it after his last visit eight years ago .
The new boogie board still in its cellophane was leaning against the mirror beside the junior-sized chest of drawers .
Posters of surfers and the ’98 Padres World Series still hung on the wall , the corners curling from age .
On the card table , his advanced Kem5500 chemistry set with its professional grade test tubes , alcohol burner and highly dangerous chemicals was set up just as he’d left it .
He remembered the pride he felt when he got it as a Christmas present at ten , knowing that the label on the side said , “For Teens 14+.” He set his backpack on the bed and removed his bathroom kit .
The two prescription bottles for his diagnosed , yet non-existent anxiety prescribed by the family shrink had been filled the day before his flight .
He took out two blues and a green , went to the kitchen , opened a beer and swallowed them with a swig of micro-brewed lager .
Chapter 2 : Disappearance The deafening roar of a KC-130 Hercules thundering overhead from Miramar jerked Tomas out of his drug-induced sleep .
He was half-lying , half-sitting on the couch in front of a muted infomercial wearing yesterday’s clothes and still gripping half a bottle of beer in his right hand .
Must have dozed off right after eating those burgers , he thought , stretching and checking his watch .
11:13 am .
Tomas crept to his father’s bedroom door , opened it a crack and peered inside .
But werewolves , on the other hand , offer so much more .
We’re part of the natural world .
We have beauty .
We have eternity .
We were worshipped as gods by many of your cultures .
What makes a vampire more appealing to you ? ” “They aren’t more appealing , ” Lily said .
“And it’s not that they have something you don’t .
It’s that you have something they don’t.” “You’re confusing me , child.” “You’re alive and they are not , ” Lily said .
She wiped the moisture from her eyes .
“And I don’t want to be.” Phillip laughed .
“Ah , ” he said .
“Broken heart .
So what happened ?
Were you betrayed by a lover ?
Or perhaps you’ve tasted death and now find life unbearable .
Did someone close to you die ? ” “Nobody died , ” Lily said .
“Then it’s a broken heart , ” Phillip said .
He turned to one of the vampires .
“I see now why you want to turn this one .
Melancholy and vampires go together like peanut butter and jelly.” “I’m looking at a werewolf , ” Lily said as she dropped to her knees .
Phillip looked down at her .
“What an odd thing to say.” He turned again to one of the vampires .
“Is the area secure ?
I hope you weren’t foolish enough to call me to an area you haven’t secured .
I can smell humanity on you three .
You’re young little blood suckers .
I’d hate to kill you before you got to really enjoy your new condition.” “It is secure , Phillip , ” the vampire answered .
“The town is very secluded .
There is no military presence this far from the war line .
We were passing through these mountains , on our way to Jackson’s Folly , when we stumbled across this little buffet .
We watched them for a month before we decided to bleed the town dry .
There most certainly is nothing here but townspeople.” “I don’t mean the town , ” Phillip said .
“I mean these woods , right now .
Did you make sure she was alone ? ” Before the vampire could answer , Lily said , “Do it now.” Phillip looked down her .
The agitation on his face was unmistakable .
“Do not give me orders , little girl.” Lily smiled .
“I wasn’t talking to you.” For a brief moment , Phillip looked confused .
Just as understanding crept into his eyes , a tiny hole appeared in the center of his forehead .
The vampires watched in horror as Phillip touched the fresh bullet hole in his own head .
He pulled his hand down and looked at the blood on his fingertips .
He staggered back a few steps , then fell to the ground .
The vampires stood over his dead body , staring down at him in horrified silence .
The silence was broken when two of the vampires gave agonized screams as wooden stakes burst from their chests .
They fell forward , landing on the werewolf’s dead body .
Lily stood above them , still holding the bloody stakes she had driven through their backs .
She looked down at Phillip .
“Was he important ?
The way you’re acting makes me think he was important.” Before the remaining vampire could answer , an arrow zipped from the woods and pierced his chest , then his heart .
He fell against a tree and slid to the ground .
“Wow , ” Lily said as she looked at the four dead creatures .
“That was way easier than I thought it would be.” “No kidding , ” a voice said from her front shirt pocket .
It was a young man’s voice .
Lily pulled her cell phone from her pocket and said , “Leo , why the hell are you not here ? ” “It’s a long walk , ” Leo Rosenberg said as he stepped from the shadows .
He was a young man , nineteen years old , with short brown hair and a badly growing goatee .
A pair of night-vision goggles hung around his neck .
A rifle and crossbow hung from each of his shoulders .
“Holy shit , ” he said as he stepped beside Lily and looked down at the bodies .
“That was intense.” Lily looked at him and chuckled humorlessly .
“Oh , poor you , ” she said .
“Having to hide in the woods while your best friend stood nose to nose with three vampires and a werewolf.” “It was your plan , ” Leo said .
He looked back at Phillip and shook his head .
“A werewolf , ” he whispered .
“Damn .
When you said you were looking at a werewolf , I was sure he’d figure it out and kill us both.” “Me too , ” Lily said as she nervously ran her fingers through her reddish brown hair .
“But I didn’t have a choice .
I was afraid you couldn’t hear what he was saying .
I had to make sure you used the right weapon.” “I’m glad you thought of it .
I couldn’t hear anybody but you .
That’s why it took a few seconds for me to get the gun out and aimed.” “I don’t understand these guys , ” Lily said , pointing toward one of the dead vampires .
“Yeah , ” Leo said .
“I thought they were supposed to turn to dust or something.” “No , dumbass , ” Lily said .
“They revert back to their original age .
Only the really old ones turn to dust .
Clearly , these guys were new to the undead ranks .
What I don’t understand is why they just stood there.” “Maybe you were right about the werewolf being someone important , ” Leo said .
“Looked to me like they were in shock.” “Makes me nervous that an important werewolf is this far into Virginia , ” Lily said .
“Yeah , ” Leo said .
“I’m just amazed he didn’t smell me .
I heard werewolves can smell people from a mile away .
We were damn lucky.” “No , ” Lily said .
“We were damn smart .
We made sure you stayed downwind .
I made sure to wear perfume and I made sure to make as much noise as possible .
And even though we didn’t expect a werewolf , you brought the gun .
Don’t give luck credit for our planning and hard work.” “Well , I know one thing , ” Leo said .
“We’re going to be legends.” “Don’t be stupid , ” Lily said .
“Day Soldiers kill vampires every single day.” “Well , ” Leo said , “that might be true , but it wasn’t Day Soldiers who just saved Iveyton from three vampires and a werewolf.” Lily grinned .
“Leo , my friend , you make a fine point .
Now where’s your knife ?
We’ve got some trophies to take back to town.” Chapter 2 Iveyton Dawn Darren Baxter woke early , as usual .
Judging from the light filtering into his window , he guessed it was a little after six .
He looked at his bedside clock .
6:14 am .
Trying his best to not wake Beth , he slipped from the bed and silently made his way downstairs to the kitchen .
He checked to make sure coffee was brewing ( thanks to the automatic timer ) , then picked up the remote on the kitchen table and turned on the TV built into the kitchen wall .
“Let’s see who died today , ” he mumbled as he flipped it to his favorite news channel .
“If that’s decaf , ” Beth said as she walked into the kitchen , “I’m kicking you in the face.” Darren smiled .
“You’re the one always telling me I need to drink less caffeine.” “Not at six-thirty in the morning , ” Beth said .
She walked to the kitchen cabinet and pulled down two coffee cups .
“Don’t worry , ” Darren said .
Hour Of The Cyclops - Laird Barron : z online work - 4.0 - horror Online Story .
http : //freesf.blogspot.com/2009/02/hour-of-cyclops-laird-barron.html 29 .
Bulldozer - Laird Barron : z online work - 3.5 - horror Online story .
http : //freesf.blogspot.com/2007/08/bulldozer-laird-barron.html 30 .
Old Virginia - Laird Barron : z online work - 4.0 - horror Online story .
http : //freesf.blogspot.com/2009/02/old-virginia-laird-barron.html 31 .
Parallax - Laird Barron : z online work - 4.0 - horror Online story .
http : //freesf.blogspot.com/2007/11/parallax-laird-barron.html 32 .
Procession Of the Black Sloth - Laird Barron : z online work - 4.0 - horror Online work .
http : //freesf.blogspot.com/2009/02/procession-of-black-sloth-laird-barron.html 33 .
Shiva Open Your Eye - Laird Barron : z online work - 4.0 - horror Online story .
http : //freesf.blogspot.com/2009/02/shiva-open-your-eye-laird-barron.html 34 .
Author Reading - Laird Barron : 4.5 - z photograph - fans Along with other KGB photos in this photostream .
http : //www.flickr.com/photos/35025258 @ N00/3293887858/ 35 .
Wicker Time - Laird Barron : z online work - 3.0 - poetry A poem .
http : //www.eclectica.org/v4n3/barron.html 36 .
Delay On Battery Street - Laird Barron : z online work - 3.0 - poetry A poem .
http : //www.redriverreview.com/A55656/RRR.NSF/AllByPoet/8DB04F90E759389D86256928001062CF ? opendocument 37 .
The Imago Sequence and Other Stories - Laird Barron : z award - 5.0 - shirley jackson Shirley Jackson Award winner for Best Collection , 2007. http : //www.shirleyjacksonawards.org/sja_2007_winners.php 38 .
The Imago Sequence and Other Stories - Laird Barron : bram stoker - 5.0 - z award nomination Bram Stoker award nomination for best collection , 2007. http : //www.horror.org/stokerwinnom.htm 39 .
Wikipedia - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - 4.5 - encyclopedia Online encyclopedia entry .
He has also been the Managing Editor of the online literary magazine Melic Review .
He lives in Washington .
Bestselling author Stewart O'Nan said of his work : “If you think there are n't any new Richard Mathesons or Harlan Ellisons out there , you need to read Laird Barron.” Nick Gevers , reviewing for Locus Magazine , has called Barron , `` ... a miraculous synthesis of Lovecraft and Lucius Shepard . ''
LOCUS October 2005 , Issue 537 vol .
55 no .
4Contents [ hide ] 1 Biography 2 Bibliography 2.1 Novels 2.2 Collections 2.3 Anthologies 3 Stories 4 Other Writing 5 References 6 External resources Biography Mr. Barron spent his early years in Alaska , where he raced the Iditarod three times during the early 1990s .
He moved to Washington in 1994 where he became a certified strength trainer and earned a third degree brown belt in Professor Bradley J. Steiner 's Jen Do Tao system , a fighting art based on WWII close quarters combat techniques developed by W.E .
Fairbairn and Colonel Rex Applegate .
His professional writing debut occurred 2001 when Gordon Van Gelder published Shiva , Open Your Eye in the September issue of The Magazine of Fantasy Science Fiction .
In addition to The Magazine of Fantasy Science Fiction , Barron 's work has been featured in SCI FICTION , Inferno : New Tales of Terror and the Supernatural , Lovecraft Unbound ! , Black Wings : New Tales of Lovecraftian Horror , and The Del Rey Book of Science Fiction and Fantasy .
It has also been reprinted in numerous year 's anthologies and nominated for multiple awards including the World Fantasy Award , International Horror Guild Award , Sturgeon Award , Crawford Award , and The Shirley Jackson Award .
Mr. Barron 's debut collection , The Imago Sequence Other Stories , was published in 2007 by Night Shade Books .
He and his wife currently reside in Olympia , Washington .
Afterword to limited edition of Peter Straub 's Koko Centipede Press 2010 '' Vistas of Evil Splendor . ''
Introduction to The Darkly Splendid Realm by Richard Gavin Dark Regions Press 2009 '' Dark Star : The Michael Shea Experience . ''
An introduction to The Autopsy Other Tales , Centipede Press , 2008 '' Twenty-First Century Ghosts . ''
Essay for LOCUS Magazine , May 2007 '' Quietly , Now . ''
The Imago Suite - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - 4.5 - blog Author 's blog that he actually uses .
Look here for news and commentary .
http : //imago1.livejournal.com/ 41 .
Website - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - website - 3.0 Has basic info , but not uptodate as far as work goes .
http : //www.lairdbarron.com/ 42 .
Wordpress - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - blog - 3.5 Occasionally updated with information and news , some links .
http : //lairdbarron.wordpress.com/ 43 .
Facebook - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - blog - 4.0 Live author updates .
http : //www.facebook.com/laird.barron 44 .
Website - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - 4.5 - website The author 's new site , complete with comic portrait .
http : //www.lairdbarron.net/ 45 .
Books Are My Only Friends Interview with - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - interview - 3.5 '' My tastes are eclectic -- I enjoy everything from Michener ‘s historical doorstops to New Wave science fiction .
There’s a special place in my heart for procedurals and crime novels .
Gorky Park , Smilla’s Sense of Snow and Robert Parker’s Spenser series are some of my favorites .
The thing horror offers is the frisson that comes with fear and dread and visceral shock ; frightful imagery appeals to our lizard brain in a way that is profound and immediate .
Horror is an important and vital art form -- it’s rooted in primitive emotions , the animal self that resists sublimation .
We’ve not evolved sufficiently as a species to turn our backs on the lizard , the wolf , the ape .
Our ineluctable fascination with the gruesome , the violent , the macabre , is a gentle reminder of that . ''
http : //booksaremyonlyfriends.blogspot.com/2009/12/interview-with-laird-barron.html 46 .
Lairdbarron.net - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - blog - 4.0 Author 's new wordpress site in progress .
Complete with comic version of the authro .
http : //www.lairdbarron.net/ 47 .
From The Terrifying Wastes Of The Cosmos Come Scary Old People - Grey Area : z non-fiction - 3.5 - article '' Many of the stories take place in the present day in the American Northwest particularly around Olympia and Eastern Washington state .
There are some notable exceptions .
The previously unpublished `` Procession of the Black Sloth '' is a bleak disorienting descent into Hell set in Hong Kong .
A grizzled Pinkerton agent tracks down a vicious killer to a Gold Rush town in `` Bulldozer '' , it could be described as Cthulu in Deadwood .
`` Hallucigenia '' is about a wealthy man trying to come to grips with a bizarre and horrible incident that has left his life shattered .
It made me think of the best of Clive Barker , only better .
The title story deserves to hang in the same nightmarish gallery as `` The Picture of Dorian Grey '' and `` Pickman 's Model '' .
`` The Imago Sequence '' is a notorious trio of photographs sought after by rich and eccentric collectors .
One of these sends his agent , an ex-wrestler turned kneecap-busting debt collector , to hunt down the mysterious third image .
His investigation uncovers a labyrinth of conspiracy , crime , and macabre cults , or something even worse . ''
http : //io9.com/5266163/from-the-terrifying-wastes-of-the-cosmos-come-scary-old-people 48 .
Books are my only friends More questions with - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - interview - 4.0 '' I conducted a significant amount of research regarding the physical and historical geography of Hong Kong and the Eighteen Hells , or Diyu .
Getting these aspects right presented the greatest challenge other than formulating the novella itself .
Procession of the Black Sloth is an homage to horror in general , but most especially to Asian horror cinema , and as such , I 've found the great body of world literature and film has prepared Western audiences to receive the material .
Koji Suzuki 's Ringu cycle and films such as Uzimaki , A Tale of Two Sisters , and Ju-on are examples of work that has penetrated Western consciousness and reshaped the imaginative calculus .
And of course , anime and manga are powerful and prevalent forces here in the U.S..
In any event , Sloth deals with the reciprocal nature of the universe , a concept that transcends East-West artistic traditions and gets to the root of human fascination and dread , the heart of spirituality we all share in one guise or another . ''
http : //booksaremyonlyfriends.blogspot.com/2010/01/more-questions-with-laird-barron.html 49 .
The British Fantasy Society Forum - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - 3.5 - forum He has a section along with many others .
http : //www.britishfantasysociety.org/forum/index.php ? PHPSESSID=8500d1c28ced08177614c809b58adef6topic=2422.0 50 .
Occultation - Matthew Jaffe : professional - z cover - 3.5 Cover art for the collection : - http : //photos-d.ak.fbcdn.net/hphotos-ak-snc3/hs436.snc3/25083_1333631855813_1081556704_31030137_760037_n.jpg 51 .
Colleen Lindsay - Laird Barron : z non-fiction - 4.0 - agent His agent : - http : //colleenlindsay.com/ 52 .
Laird Barron Wordle : z non-fiction - wordle - 3.0 Here : - http : //www.wordle.net/show/wrdl/556230/Laird_Barron 53 .
Group Photo - Laird Barron and John Langan : z photograph - fans - 4.0 And two presumably unscarable associates in Paul Tremblay and Hannah Wolf Bowen .
4 out 5 http : //farm3.static.flickr.com/2313/1898375924_d67cea3344.jpg 54 .
Clownette by Terry Dowling : An Appreciation - Laird Barro : z non-fiction - 4.5 - article '' Terry Dowling knows the heart of fear has n't strayed far from the caves and he understands the raw , ineluctable fascination of a campfire tale .
He is conversant with its rules and rituals-—Did you hear the one about the guy , this salesman , who could n't get a room at his regular hotel ?
So the clerk says , `` Hey , you could stay in this one room we got in back .
We 'll give you our special rate .
. '' ''
http : //edsfproject.blogspot.com/2006_02_20_archive.html 55 .
Occultation Introduction - Michael Shea : z non-fiction - 4.5 - introduction '' Laird Barron 's carnivorous cosmos ... Or perhaps it 's more a conspiracy his cosmos draws you into than a digesting maw .
And rather than being absorbed as a nutrient , you may be absorbed into an older and more potent Form-your limbs and neck may grow rubbery and rather more elongate , and your new tree-toad fingers might enable you to crawl across ceilings , thence to peer down on old , still-mortal friends and acquaintances , studying them from many angles with your new stalked eyes .
Barron 's cosmos is an omni-morph that can dragoon you whenever/ wherever it wants into its swarming , pullulating fabric .
The editorial is about Lady Diana’s shoe collection and how the sales of it are going into private coffers instead of to charity , which we all know she would have preferred.” “She had over four thousand shoes , ” Nathan reminded her .
“Imelda Marcos would have been jealous .
I’d call that capitalist excess.” “For many women , it 's a version of heaven , ” Dottie sighed .
“Go home , and try again .
I’m warning you , Nathan .
I don’t want to see any blood and guts this time .
Don’t look at me like that , I’m not some dragon cramping your style .
You’re new here , and maybe the stress of coming to a new city and your trouble with finding an apartment and getting settled is affecting your work .
I’m willing to believe that.” She tapped a plain , shining pink nail on the surface of her desk , her thin pale lips a taut line of disapproval .
Dottie had the eerie knack of making you feel like you were at the principal’s office , waiting to be handed a suspension .
“I want it on my desk by tomorrow afternoon .
No later .
You came highly recommended from your teaching stint at the College Of Graphic Media in New York .
I’ve got high expectations , so make sure it’s good.” So now here he was , well past his deadline , stuck in his cramped bachelor apartment with a detail of an open skull and its leaky brain glaring back at him from the pencilled illustration .
There was no question in his mind that this was going to get him fired , but if that cow Dottie thought he was going to compromise his artistic principals just because she had a squeamish streak , she had another thing coming .
He gritted his teeth , and poised his pen over the paper , the Sasquatch he 'd drawn clawing at the nub with glee at the prospect of giving his violence some permanence .
He placed the tip of his pen on the paper , and began to carefully trace .
A sonic boom pounded through the tiny apartment , followed by another , and then another , and then screaming and shouting , a horrific cacophony that was fit to raise the dead .
The apartment shook from the onslaught , black ink leaving a nervous line directly across the Sasquatch’s angry face .
Cursing , Nathan tried to fix the mistake , only to be outdone once again by the loud noises of the apartment next door , the screaming and pounding breaking all concentration and leaving him furious .
“For God’s sake , keep it down ! ” he shouted at the far wall , but as usual the request was futile .
His neighbours were too earnestly violent to hear him .
Angry , he reached across the table to turn on his small CD player , the volume ratcheted up to the max , the funky rhythm of The Specials blasting Monkey Man into the din .
This of course started what he knew would be a chain reaction , with the neighbour beneath him now pounding on his ceiling , demanding he turn that goddamned shit off .
Annoyed at how his work was nearly ruined , and edgy over its lack of progress , Nathan stomped his feet on the oak floors , echoing the blows beneath him as a therapeutic catharsis .
Unfortunately , all this served to do was knock over the red bottle of ink at his elbow , covering his hard day’s work in a ruining bloodbath .
“Aw , fuck me ! ” He stepped away from his kitchen table , his lap thick with red ink .
He took a few pieces of paper towel off the roll and tried to wipe it off , only to prove the extent of the damage was considerable .
Good thing he only ever wore black , at least his clothes were salvageable .
His chest , however , was now a rosy pink hue that clung to his skin like a Hello Kitty burn .
Red footprints were left in his wake as he headed for the kitchen sink , the water running red as murder as he washed his hands .
“Bastards , ” he muttered , barely able to hear himself over the chaotic din of old school ska , his angry ceiling banging neighbour beneath him and the insane , monstrous bedlam that was hammering and screaming against the brick living room wall of his flat .
“Shut the devil up , why don’t you ! ” he shouted back .
A sudden , eerie quiet lay behind the whitewashed brick wall of his flat , and he quickly turned off his stereo , the last trailing thumps of anger from his neighbour below him trickling into a tense silence .
Carefully , on tip-toe , he made his way to the pull-out couch that was pressed against the brick wall , a feat which in this tiny flat only took him ten long steps .
Balancing unevenly on the cushions of his beige tartan sofa , Nathan pressed his ear against the cool , white-washed bricks .
A resounding thump pushed him off , the apartment next door exploding into pounding punches of violence .
The vibrations against the brick wall were severe enough to knock down Nathan’s framed , vintage ‘Solidarnosc’ poster , the corner hitting the side of his head as it crashed to the hard oak floor .
Cursing , he tested the sore spot at his temples with his fingertips , which were now genuinely stained with droplets of blood .
“Son of a bitch ! ” he shouted .
He pounded his fists on the white bricks , demanding silence .
Chips of concrete fell onto his worn sofa .
His fury earned him nothing but sore hands and greyish-pink ink smudges on the crumbling white bricks .
This wasn’t the first time this happened since he’d moved here a month ago , and he was already tiring of the conflict .
He turned and leaned his back against the cool bricks , the fighting behind him massaging the kinks in his spine .
His poster lay massacred on the floor , his work in a likewise state from this view into the corner that served as his dining room .
So much for cheap rent and the room to act out his particular brand of genius on a tight budget .
He almost regretted leaving that awful teaching job back at the college , but he was determined to be a professional doodler and practise what he preached .
His starving artist’s soul depended on it .
Speaking of starving artists , he was damned hungry .
Where the hell was Mark with his dinner ?
He’d promised to be here half an hour ago .
Careful to avoid shards of glass , he left his sofa to attempt a good view out of his second floor apartment window .
The glass was ancient and warped , original to the building’s construction in the early 1920 ? s , as the landlord had proudly boasted .
The dark grey hue of the world outside the window suggested it was raining .
Warped , colourful circular patterns moved along the busy sidewalk below , a parade of umbrellas .
He opened his window , allowing in a thin mist of rain that collected in puddles on the windowsill .
The umbrellas belonged to harried pedestrians , rushing to get somewhere dry , some undefinable elsewhere that would provide them with calm , cozy warmth .
When he and his brother Mark had first moved to this city it was on a warm , sunny day full of promise , a new page turned in the ever thinning volume that was his biography .
It wasn’t long before the real soul of the place showed its opaque , unfriendly face and the constant view out his window became grey and depressing , full of that inner city grime that was so pervasive of congestive downtown living .
Granted , living in a dying building , as Crescent Manor was , didn’t help the feeling of encroaching decay .
The landlord may hold pride in how lovingly preserved art deco fixtures gave the place the illusion of a historic building , but it was merely a decrepit shell of itself with the dirt original to the construction .
Nathan sighed , thinking that he and his brother should have sensed something was wrong when they saw the massive stained glass window embedded against the outside wall of the main staircase .
It curled inward from the right side of the elevator , a contraption so old the permanent ‘Out of Order’ sign taped on it was yellowed with age .
The stained glass mural was plainly visible to the main street , a source of embarrassment for nearly a hundred years .
The artwork was solid enough , a good example of early art nouveau style depicting a large , black , olive green , gold , and red tree , but the construction crew of 1921 , not being art aficionados , had accidentally installed the window upside down .
Thus , the grim tangle of black roots crawled eerily towards the ceiling of the grand staircase of Crescent Manor , right up to the fourth floor .
The equally crawly olive green and dark gold leaves and branches strained towards the lobby , as though trying to claw the inhabitants of the Manor into the central red and black maw that was its trunk .
Just thinking on the sombre hues and mixing it with the grey of the early evening and the constant low thumping and complaining from the apartment next door put Nathan into a deep blue funk .
He rested his elbows on the windowsill , the misty rain pelting his face .
Not for the first time he wondered what the hell he was doing here , in this stupid city , following his brother around like the connection they shared even existed .
So what if they were twins ?
They were fraternal , not connected in any special way like identicals were .
They were ordinary siblings .
Just because Mark got a job at the hospital here didn’t mean Nathan had to pack up and run along with him .
It wasn’t like they were close .
Hell , they were barely strangers for all they had in common .
It was madness trying to force a connection that refused to exist , but as usual , Nathan got the word from his brother , handed in his notice , and ran with Mark to this town like the devil himself was after him .
He sighed .
There was his demon now , walking with hunched shoulders , his neat beige trenchcoat soaked at the back , a clear plastic bag holding several Styrofoam packets in his damp grip .
“Hey ! ” Nathan shouted out of his window , the stranger who was his brother looking up at him .
“I told you to go to Henri’s ! ” Mark shrugged , ready to collapse into a puddle at his feet .
He was always so insufferably weary and miserable .
“He wasn’t open .
He closes at five on Mondays.” He held out the clear plastic bag and its contents as a promised peace offering .
“I went to Wong Fu’s instead.” “La Patisserie Rouge et Blanc is the only place worth eating in this shithole of a city , and you know it ! ” There was a pounding of violence on the far wall of his flat and he gave it a cruel sneer .
“Just bring it up ! ” he shouted , and slammed his window shut .
~*~ “You didn’t have to be an ass and shout at me like that .
It was very rude.” The front door of the flat opened into the tiny galley kitchen , and Mark pushed his way past his brother into the cramped space , their meal placed on the dusty stove next to the sink .
“There wouldn’t be any issues at all if you’d learn to forage for yourself .
This thing , right here ?
I believe it’s called an oven .
It gets hot and you can cook things in it .
And that white , rounded shape on the other side , here ?
This is what’s known as a refrigerator .
It keeps the things you cook cold , so they don’t spoil.” He gave the grimy , noisy white box that was crammed into the corner like a wrinkled pop can an uneasy sniff .
“Good Heavens , Nathan , what the hell is that sour smell ? ” “Probably food that’s been in that thing since the place was built , ” Nathan replied .
“Hell , you know how crazy that landlord is when it comes to his ‘historical authenticity’ .
I’ve never opened it , so I couldn’t tell you what’s in there .
Stuff that predates this place , for all I know.” He grabbed a pop can out of the clear plastic bag and noisily opened it , taking a refreshing cool swig of root beer as he headed for his kitchen table .
“Somebody ask it a question.” “Does Charlie like Kristin ? ” asked Eddie .
Kristin giggled and Curtis snorted .
I felt my face burn and was grateful for the dark .
In horror I watched as the planchette moved around and around on the board , then back over to Yes .
Everyone laughed but me .
I think Kristin shot me a smile , but I was already looking down at my boots .
“I got a question , ” said Curtis .
“Which one of us is going to be the first to die ? ” Everyone fell silent .
The planchette moved around and around , finally landing on the letter C. Next the letter U , then over to R ... “Screw you guys ! ” said Curtis , and he flipped the Ouija board off the table and that was that .
The first time .
After that Kristin and Eddie made us take the Ouija board to the pet cemetery , which was totally stupid , and then to a real cemetery .
At midnight , of course .
We sat in the grass of the old section , among the crumbling , old tombstones .
At first , they wanted to put the Ouija board on top of someone’s grave , but I convinced them that was a bad idea .
So Kristin and Eddie sat on the ground and put the board between their laps .
I noticed that their knees were touching .
Some friend Eddie was .
Still , if I was too chicken , then maybe I didn’t deserve to be with her after all .
She said the same corny mumbo jumbo as before , while I kept looking over my shoulder for a policeman , ready to chase us away .
“Is there a spirit here who will communicate with us ? ” asked Kristin .
The planchette moved around and around , slowly , carefully .
First stopping on S , then P , then I , on to D , then E and finally R. SPIDER .
“Spider ? ” said Curtis .
The planchette began moving over to L ... Kristin and Eddie freaked , both of them flipping the board off their legs , and then we were all running back to the car as fast as we could .
We climbed inside and slammed the doors , peering out the windows for any sign of trouble .
Eddie turned to me .
“Dude , it spelled ‘spider’ ! ” “That was freaking weird , ” said Curtis .
“You guys !
We left my board back there ! ” said Kristin .
We all looked at each other .
“Eddie , get my board for me ?
Please ? ” “No way , ” said Eddie .
“I’m not going back out there , ” said Curtis .
Kristin turned to me .
I hesitated .
“I’ll get it , ” I said , and opened the car door .
“So long , Charlie , ” said Curtis .
“Time to die , bro ! ” said Eddie .
Kristin smiled at me .
I slammed the car door and walked back into the cemetery .
I kept my flashlight pointed to the ground .
Its beam was weak , and I couldn’t see much beyond a few feet in front of me .
But that was okay .
There was nothing to be scared of out here .
Just a bunch of old trees and old tombstones and old bones buried underground .
As I headed back to the spot where we dropped the Ouija board , I convinced myself that Eddie and Kristin were playing a trick on me .
Probably Eddie’s idea .
The more I got to know him , the more I realized he was kind of a jerk .
I made the mistake of telling them about the Spider Lady the first few months after we became friends .
They all knew the basic story ; that me and this kid Jason Morgan were fooling around at the tower ; that he tried to climb through a window to get inside ; that there was horrible accident and he died .
I guess I trusted them , so I told them about my mental breakdown .
See , I was so traumatized by what happened , I convinced myself I saw the Spider Lady in the tower with Jason and that she killed him .
I remember thinking I saw her up in the window with blood on her lips and that she whispered something and smiled .
She whispered , Thank you .
For what , I don’t know .
Pretty goofy , huh ?
The Spider Lady is our own local legend here in Elmwood .
Our version of the Jersey Devil , or the Chupacabra .
Every time something weird happens around here , somebody blames the Spider Lady .
Like every time some dog or cat goes missing .
Like when that little girl Susan Taylor disappeared three years ago on Halloween after trick-or-treating with her friends .
Or last year when this senior at my high school named David Lopez killed himself with a shotgun in the woods near the tower .
In his pocket they even found a crumpled drawing of a spider with a woman’s face .
I’m not surprised you haven’t heard of her .
People around here don’t really like to talk about the Spider Lady much , and when they do , it’s mostly in whispers and nods .
I guess it’s because maybe they’re embarrassed ?
Who knows ?
Anyway , Eddie and Kristin were jerking me around .
I was positive of that .
It infuriated me .
This was my private stuff they were messing with .
I was so angry I hardly realized that I had reached the Ouija board .
I snatched it up off the ground and felt something sticky on my fingers .
I shined my flashlight on them and saw they were covered with thick , gooey , grayish strands of spider webs .
I dropped the board and wiped my hands on my jeans .
The webs wouldn’t come off .
In the darkness I heard a woman’s voice .
“Charlieeeeeee ... ” she whispered .
Like snow and glass .
I froze .
Goosebumps ran up and down my arms .
“I’ve missed you , Charlie ... ” The voice was coming from above me .
I lifted up my flashlight and shone it into the trees .
Dark leaves stirred in the wind , twisting and turning .
“Come to the Tower , Charlie , ” said the familiar voice .
“And bring me fresh blood.” I heard a branch creaking and turned my flashlight on the source of the noise .
It was her .
She was pale , white , old , wrapped in a battered , faded black cloak , all those black furry limbs sticking out to grip the branch beneath her .
She was hideous , and yet , there seemed to be something wrong with her as well , like she was sick .
Her bulging red eyes held me in her gaze , and then , an instant later the Spider Lady was gone .
I cringed , expecting to be attacked , bitten , mutilated , but nothing happened .
All was quiet except for the loud thumping of my heart .
My hands shook .
I felt like I was going to swallow my tongue .
I took a few steps backward , staring at the branch she had just been perched on .
“Help me ... ” the Spider Lady whispered .
Then I ran back to the car .
I threw the door open and flung myself onto the seat next to Curtis .
He was staring down at his iPod , thumbing through songs , looking sheepish .
In the front seat , Eddie and Kristin were kissing .
As he stepped down from the alter and took up a position in front of it the breeze began to pick up .
The clergyman began to panic with a gust of wind sweeping in and extinguishing the candles dotted around the building .
The only light that was left was that emanating from the misty moon and street lights outside poorly filtering through the stained glass , leaving the church tinted an eerie twilight blue .
The gust finally died down and the church was again silent for several moments .
The priest stepped slowly towards Richard who remained concrete still .
Just as he reached the corner of the alter an empty , tubular tone echoed around the rafters .
It vibrated cobwebs from their century old hollows , startled dozens of bats and shook the very soul of the building .
Still , Richard stayed motionless .
The lonely sound did not fade .
It merely changed .
It merged in and out of the audible spectrum but , at last , seemed to settle into a slow moving mist that bellowed out above the alter , with wisps circled around both Richard and the priest .
They explored and felt there presences before they withdrew in a slick motion followed by a sequence of low tones .
They echoed among the relics and became apparent as distinct voices , moaning and groaning a fate for the eternally damned .
Suddenly a single voice became apparent among the drone .
“Leave this place…” the voice was forceful but without authority or malice , “leave us.” All his life the priest had followed his faith with blind diligence and loyalty , but now , with all that he was witnessing he began to question whether he had ever believed everything he had been preaching .
Pushing the doubts to the back of his mind , trying to silence them with the story he had always been taught .
As the voice spoke he stumbled back and made a short spurt for his chamber fumbling the poor box to the ground and slamming the door behind himself , locking it tight .
Richard eyes flicked open onto the alter and upon a much different world .
The walls glowed as if the sun its self bore presence unto them .
The air above the ground shimmered with a dark essence that now seemed to encompass the other worldly chapel .
The candles that had shone so bright previously now burnt a quiet , almost black flame yet somehow still seemed to outline the solitary brass idols around them .
A shivering atmosphere at Richards feet morphed from a slight shimmering to a gradually increasing motion that mimicked that of ocean mist rolling onto a dawn shore .
It rose and encompassed the objects on the alter and eventually up to the pulpit as if it was attempting to prove everything was insignificant compared to its mere presence .
Suddenly the waves fell to the ground and broke on the stone slabs with no apparent reason or prompting .
Still un-phased , Richard began to move , casually reaching into an inner pocket and taking a firm hold of a glass apothecary bottle .
As he did , the darkness pressed up against his back forcing him to pause his actions .
“Why are you here ? ” the voice of the darkness was whispered in an almost surreal way .
“Why do you not listen ? ” Richard let go of the bottle and let it slip neatly back into his pocket , withdrawing his had down to his side .
Turning around he found the shadows had manifested themselves into a figure .
A young boy , no older than fourteen , his complexion pale and virtually translucent .
“How are you here ? ” it added , mystified by the mortal before him .
Richard took a breath , at a loss of what to say .
Before he had a chance to even think , a second presence drifted across his path .
Slowly , from the back of the chapel it began to fade through air , taller than the first , it started to take steps through the wavering air .
It reached out and gently placed a hand on the boys shoulder and looked dead at Richard , just as its features became discernable .
Both looked as though they had once , long ago , worked on the fields ; sowing and ploughing .
He dared not think about how the farmer had come to be here .
“You know why I’m here ? ” he asked the taller spirit .
The farmer moved in front of his son and without any kind of concern gazed straight at Richard .
“Are you a god fearing man , sir ? ” he continued to silently stare ahead for a few more seconds .
“How could you live with yourself ?
You don’t know how long we’ve looked for a way back .
You have no idea how desolate , how empty it is there .
What reason have you got to send us back ? ” “I do know…” Richard replied simply , pausing in thought for a second , “…and I’m sorry…I truly am.” The farmer only now broke his gaze and stepped back in line with his son .
“So am I.” The priest , shaking with disbelief , opened his eyes and unclasped his praying hands .
He inched around and found the door handle , grasping it loosely at first , tightening his grip as confidence returned to him .
He re-opened the door onto an empty church hall , lacking any trace that anything had happened .
He stepped from the doorway and lightly trod towards the alter .
He looked up towards the dark shrine with the candles now extinguished and up at the brass cross that , even now , still shone in the gloom .
He looked around and realised the absence of the discarded poor box .
Without even looking for it he knew that the mysterious stranger had taken it and for all that he had seen that night , he could keep it .
The house was , at most 35 , maybe 40 , years old yet it had a strange presence about it .
A presence that was much older than anything to do with the house .
It encompassed the rooms and flowed through their occupants , drawing attention away from the ornately decorated skirting boards , antique figurines and bookcases brimming with texts on spirituality and other worldly planes .
Richard placed the poor box , much more gently than it had become accustomed to over the course of the night , on a small shelf next to the door along with his keys while he slipped off his dripping jacket and dropped it over a cloak stand .
No sooner as he had done that , from down the hall came the sound of the kitchen door swinging open and firm footsteps making their way up the polished wooden floor .
“Again ? ” came the young but raspy male voice of the footsteps .
“It just seems such a waste , ” replied Richard , again placing a firm grasp on the poor box , this time only to toss it to his counterpart walking towards him .
Michael breathed out heavily as Richard turned into the lounge but suddenly seemed to remember something as he moved to sit down .
“Oh , yeah , you got a call while you were out .
It was Chris Cheve .
He sounded pretty messed up.” “Tell me , when isn’t he messed up ? ” he bent forward and leant on his knees .
“Did he say why he phoned or was it just his general brand of assorted doomsday messages ? ” “He said he wanted to meet you .
Tonight , in the alley next to queens square take away at 12 O’clock , ” Michael moved to the other side of the room and leant on the hearth while Richard was seemingly in deep thought .
“You’ve not had a proper break in days now .
Is it something to do with Halloween being in a few days ? ” Richard jolted his head up and looked Michael straight in the eye .
“How long now ?
Three years ?
How many times do I have to tell you ?
Halloween has no special bearing on anything , only that a few dumb shits the other side think they have a better chance of getting through .
Believe me ; they don’t so it’s not my problem.” “I just thought-” “Nothing !
Alright ? ” he sunk back into the seat and breathed deeply .
“Now .
Queens Square was it ? ” “Yeah , ” Michael said cautiously , “the take away .
I don’t know what he wants.” There was silence for a few seconds as Richard contemplated the rest of the night .
“I’d better check it out…You never know , ” he glanced at an ornate mahogany clock on the mantle piece .
“Half nine , now , ” there was silence for another few seconds before he smoothly pushed up out of the chair and headed for the hallway .
“Rich , where you going ? ” Richard grabbed his still dripping coat from the stand and slipped it on .
“I need to stop off somewhere first , ” he opened the front door and rushed out into the night .
“Hey ! ” Michael grabbed Richard’s car keys from the shelf , “you forgot your keys ! ” “I’ll walk , ” came a voice from Richard’s rapidly disappearing silhouette .
“But it’s still raining ! ” There are not many people in this world who fully know what is going on , the purpose of life and other such related subjects .
I never claimed to be one of them .
I do take some pride in having a better idea than the majority of the populous ; even if the idea is brought about by something I quiet often wished I didn’t have .
I know there’s more than one plane of existence , far more .
The living world , that of the dead and a lonely , desolate plane known only as the median world .
Fringing on each side of the median world with the planes of the living and the dead are border worlds .
Places where lost souls manifest themselves and can occasionally break through to appear as ghosts and poltergeists .
Where most can only catch glimpses of these or witness their paranormal activities , I can see them as clear as day , as though they were actually there , even when they were not supposed to be .
It’s considered by some that my duty , the duty of all Medians is to move them on to the next world , even if they do not desire to so .
I’m just trying to keep a little sanity in the world .
By the time Richard had reached Gateshead Cemetery the rain had finally eased , but still lingered with a cold ominous presence .
He stood at the chest high iron fence of the graveyard and gazed in , scanning the grounds as though he were expecting to find something .
Eventually his eyes focused onto a point just off an old chestnut that’s branches swayed lethargically in the gentle breeze .
As misty night air began to clear it became apparent that there was a figure of a man .
He seemed to be casually raking leaves , without a shudder or care for the bitterly cold air .
Richard turned away from the fence and made his way to the rusty gate .
As he gently pressed it open it moaned with the effort and finally screeched to a contented silence .
As he approached the figure it did not turn and didn’t even seem to realise his presence .
“Albert.” The figure continued to rake the apparently leafless soil for a few more seconds before it began to speak in a deep , empty tone that was almost lost to the open air .
Most days , he’d also throw in a terrible pun to kick things off .
Mr. Heller was such a stickler for routine that Milo could easily imagine the man starting his weekend mornings the same way at home , in front of a whiteboard with the words “bacon and eggs” written on it .
“Good morning , family .
Today we’re going to have bacon and eggs .
Here’s a little joke I heard .
This one will crack you up.” Seeing Mr. Heller just standing there , staring down at his desk , was unsettling enough to send a shiver down Milo’s spine .
“Are you okay ? ” Stephanie Blankencamp said from her front row desk .
Mr. Heller said nothing .
Instead , he turned around , grabbed a black dry erase marker , and started to scribble on the whiteboard .
His handwriting , normally block-perfect and in a straight line , was wild and erratic , like he was writing in an angry rush .
The whiteboard read : “Eleven” Eleven ?
What the hell ?
Is that how many beers he drank before class ?
Milo turned to Manny and Katie , the three of them exchanging quiet confusion .
Milo then looked over to Jessica , who was staring back with the same bewildered and nervous expression .
Mr. Heller turned from the whiteboard , finally meeting the eyes of the classroom .
His face was clammy , and his eyes were bloodshot .
His hands were shaking as he turned his head back and forth , as if he were counting students .
or searching for someone .
He looked down at his desk again , then opened his briefcase with a loud snapping sound .
He stared into the briefcase for what seemed an eternity , as Milo , and probably the entire class , wondered what he was looking at .
Had the class done so poorly on their reports the previous week that Heller couldn’t bring himself to pick up the stack of graded papers ?
Mr. Heller reached into the briefcase and pulled out a pistol .
Time stopped for Milo , even as a million things seemed to happen around him at once .
First , Manny laughed , like Mr. Heller was going to show them a cool trick or joke or something using the gun as a prop .
Or perhaps it was the nervous laugh of a brain which hadn’t quite registered the threat .
But someone else , Amber Riley , screamed .
Several students gasped .
Mr. Heller aimed the gun and fired , shooting Tommy Hopkins , the school’s star rower , right in the face .
The gunfire was thunder in the enclosed classroom , like an explosion in Milo’s ears as Tommy fell to the ground .
Chaos erupted as Mr. Heller turned , as calm as a man choosing his doughnuts from behind the glass , and fired another shot , then another , barely audible over the high-pitched ringing between Milo’s temples .
One shot missed one of the students and sailed through the wall into the next classroom .
Milo heard muffled screams from next door .
Had the bullet hit someone , or were they screaming in response to the sound of gunshots ?
Students scrambled in every direction but with one destination in mind — out of the classroom .
Milo remained rooted to his desk , unable to think straight , much less move .
And then something caught his attention .
Jessica was running toward him , eyes and mouth wide open .
He had to get up and protect her .
But he was too late .
Milo’s eyes shifted from Jessica to just over her left shoulder , where Mr. Heller’s blurred figure came into crystal-clear focus , gun aimed directly at Jessica .
No !
Milo opened his mouth to warn her , but his speech was cut short by the thunder of another gunshot which sent Jessica forward , and straight into him .
Milo , Jessica , and his desk tumbled in a painful collision of flesh , wood , metal , and carpet .
And blood , spreading across the front of Jessica’s powder blue sweater .
Jessica stared up at him , scared and searching for a reason .
She said something , but her voice was muffled as if he were hearing it through a wall of cotton .
He pulled her to him , as though he could protect her from more bullets .
The gunshots stopped , and the only sound was the whistling in Milo’s ears .
Milo turned his head and saw another victim of Mr. Heller’s gun — Manny lying in a river of blood .
He appeared to have been shot in the stomach .
His eyes were glassy , but he wasn’t dead .
Yet .
He was staring back at Milo , eyes pleading for help .
Just as Milo wondered where Mr. Heller had gone in all the madness , the teacher appeared , walking toward them , gun drawn in his shaky hand .
Milo wanted to get up , knock the gun away , or do something .
But he was still paralyzed on the spot , afraid that he’d do the wrong thing and get himself or his friends killed .
He looked down to see Jessica’s blood seeping into his shirt and jeans .
Her eyes were closing , and he prayed that Mr. Heller would keep walking out of the class and past them , so he could save his friends , even if he had no idea how he intended to do so .
Mr. Heller paused , looking at Manny with hollow eyes , and his expression drifted from nervous to one of bottomless sorrow .
He kneeled beside the boy , face almost apologetic .
Manny began to tremble , unable to move as Mr. Heller leaned down and said something to him .
Milo couldn’t hear what Mr. Heller said , or read his lips .
But whatever he said , seemed to remove the fear in Manny’s eyes .
Milo’s mind was suddenly focused on the acrid scent of piss , though he wasn’t sure if it was Manny , Jessica , Mr. Heller , or himself who had lost control .
Mr. Heller turned to Milo and held his eyes .
Milo winced , preparing for death .
Why is he doing this ?
Why is he going to shoot me ?
What did I ever do to him ?
Oh God , I don’t want to die .
“Please , don’t kill me , ” Milo cried , tears streaming down his face .
“I’m friends with Alex .
You know me ! ” Hearing his son’s name seemed to waken something in Mr. Heller’s eyes .
He stared at Milo as tears dripped down his face .
He looked back at the whiteboard and pointed at the word , “eleven” with the gun .
What does that mean ?
What the hell is eleven ?
Mr. Heller then raised the pistol , but not at Milo .
Instead , Mr. Heller parted his lips and shoved the gun into his open mouth .
Oh God , no !
Mr. Heller pulled the trigger and Milo screamed .
* * * * CHAPTER 2 Alex Heller Wednesday… September 6 noon Just like that .
In a flash .
Everything was gone .
Before he killed himself , Alex’s father shot and killed five of his students , including Jessica .
He shot Manny and put him in a coma .
And seemingly by accident , shot and killed a teacher , Sarah Hughes , in the next classroom .
And all Alex had were questions , and a bottomless well of grief .
No matter how many different ways he tried to pull sense from the senseless , Alex could not make sense of the tragedy .
This was the kind of thing you saw on TV , that happened to other people , not to his friends — not to his family .
Everything felt like a bad dream where he hoped to wake up any minute and find things normal again .
Except he wasn’t waking up .
Nobody was .
This nightmare was real and had shaken the entire island to its core .
Neither Milo nor Katie would return his calls .
He wasn’t sure if it was because they didn’t want to talk to him , or if their parents had forbidden them to talk to the son of the madman .
Alex sat in his bedroom , staring blankly at the television as it broadcast collages of the funerals from earlier , photos of the victims , photos of his father , reporters standing outside the school , a flock outside the funeral home , and even the island’s most famous celeb , Jon Conway , though Alex wasn’t sure what the hell he had to do with this .
There was one chance that Carter might be able to steal through that twilight realm of circular stone towers at an hour when the giants would be all gorged and snoring indoors , and reach the central tower with the sign of Koth upon it , which has the stairs leading up to that stone trap door in the enchanted wood .
Pickman even consented to lend three ghouls to help with a tombstone lever in raising the stone door ; for of ghouls the Gugs are somewhat afraid , and they often flee from their own colossal graveyards when they see them feasting there .
He also advised Carter to disguise as a ghoul himself ; shaving the beard he had allowed to grow ( for ghouls have none ) , wallowing naked in the mould to get the correct surface , and loping in the usual slumping way , with his clothing carried in a bundle as if it were a choice morsel from a tomb .
They would reach the city of Gugs—which is coterminous with the whole kingdom—through the proper burrows , emerging in a cemetery not far from the stair-containing Tower of Koth .
They must beware , however , of a large cave near the cemetery ; for this is the mouth of the vaults of Zin , and the vindictive ghasts are always on watch there murderously for those denizens of the upper abyss who hunt and prey on them .
The ghasts try to come out when the Gugs sleep and they attack ghouls as readily as Gugs , for they can not discriminate .
They are very primitive , and eat one another .
The Gugs have a sentry at a narrow in the vaults of Zin , but he is often drowsy and is sometimes surprised by a party of ghasts .
Though ghasts can not live in real light , they can endure the grey twilight of the abyss for hours .
So at length Carter crawled through endless burrows with three helpful ghouls bearing the slate gravestone of Col. Nepemiah Derby , obit 1719 , from the Charter Street Burying Ground in Salem .
When they came again into open twilight they were in a forest of vast lichened monoliths reaching nearly as high as the eye could see and forming the modest gravestones of the Gugs .
On the right of the hole out of which they wriggled , and seen through aisles of monoliths , was a stupendous vista of cyclopean round towers mounting up illimitable into the grey air of inner earth .
This was the great city of the Gugs , whose doorways are thirty feet high .
Ghouls come here often , for a buried Gug will feed a community for almost a year , and even with the added peril it is better to burrow for Gugs than to bother with the graves of men .
Carter now understood the occasional titan bones he had felt beneath him in the vale of Pnoth .
Straight ahead , and just outside the cemetery , rose a sheer perpendicular cliff at whose base an immense and forbidding cavern yawned .
This the ghouls told Carter to avoid as much as possible , since it was the entrance to the unhallowed vaults of Zin where Gugs hunt ghasts in the darkness .
So the ghoul returned to the burrow and motioned his companions to be silent .
It was best to leave the ghasts to their own devices , and there was a possibility that they might soon withdraw , since they must naturally be rather tired after coping with a Gug sentry in the black vaults .
After a moment something about the size of a small horse hopped out into the grey twilight , and Carter turned sick at the aspect of that scabrous and unwholesome beast , whose face is so curiously human despite the absence of a nose , a forehead , and other important particulars .
Presently three other ghasts hopped out to join their fellow , and a ghoul glibbered softly at Carter that their absence of battle-scars was a bad sign .
It proved that they had not fought the Gug sentry at all , but had merely slipped past him as he slept , so that their strength and savagery were still unimpaired and would remain so till they had found and disposed of a victim .
It was very unpleasant to see those filthy and disproportioned animals which soon numbered about fifteen , grubbing about and making their kangaroo leaps in the grey twilight where titan towers and monoliths arose , but it was still more unpleasant when they spoke among themselves in the coughing gutturals of ghasts .
And yet , horrible as they were , they were not so horrible as what presently came out of the cave after them with disconcerting suddenness .
It was a paw , fully two feet and a half across , and equipped with formidable talons .
Alter it came another paw , and after that a great black-furred arm to which both of the paws were attached by short forearms .
Then two pink eyes shone , and the head of the awakened Gug sentry , large as a barrel , wabbled into view .
The eyes jutted two inches from each side , shaded by bony protuberances overgrown with coarse hairs .
But the head was chiefly terrible because of the mouth .
That mouth had great yellow fangs and ran from the top to the bottom of the head , opening vertically instead of horizontally .
But before that unfortunate Gug could emerge from the cave and rise to his full twenty feet , the vindictive ghasts were upon him .
Carter feared for a moment that he would give an alarm and arouse all his kin , till a ghoul softly glibbered that Gugs have no voice but talk by means of facial expression .
The battle which then ensued was truly a frightful one .
From all sides the venomous ghasts rushed feverishly at the creeping Gug , nipping and tearing with their muzzles , and mauling murderously with their hard pointed hooves .
All the time they coughed excitedly , screaming when the great vertical mouth of the Gug would occasionally bite into one of their number , so that the noise of the combat would surely have aroused the sleeping city had not the weakening of the sentry begun to transfer the action farther and farther within the cavern .
As it was , the tumult soon receded altogether from sight in the blackness , with only occasional evil echoes to mark its continuance .
Then the most alert of the ghouls gave the signal for all to advance , and Carter followed the loping three out of the forest of monoliths and into the dark noisome streets of that awful city whose rounded towers of cyclopean stone soared up beyond the sight .
Silently they shambled over that rough rock pavement , hearing with disgust the abominable muffled snortings from great black doorways which marked the slumber of the Gugs .
Apprehensive of the ending of the rest hour , the ghouls set a somewhat rapid pace ; but even so the journey was no brief one , for distances in that town of giants are on a great scale .
At last , however , they came to a somewhat open space before a tower even vaster than the rest ; above whose colossal doorway was fixed a monstrous symbol in bas-relief which made one shudder without knowing its meaning .
This was the central tower with the sign of Koth , and those huge stone steps just visible through the dusk within were the beginning of the great flight leading to upper dreamland and the enchanted wood .
There now began a climb of interminable length in utter blackness : made almost impossible by the monstrous size of the steps , which were fashioned for Gugs , and were therefore nearly a yard high .
Of their number Carter could form no just estimate , for he soon became so worn out that the tireless and elastic ghouls were forced to aid him .
All through the endless climb there lurked the peril of detection and pursuit ; for though no Gug dares lift the stone door to the forest because of the Great One’s curse , there are no such restraints concerning the tower and the steps , and escaped ghasts are often chased , even to the very top .
So sharp are the ears of Gugs , that the bare feet and hands of the climbers might readily be heard when the city awoke ; and it would of course take but little time for the striding giants , accustomed from their ghast-hunts in the vaults of Zin to seeing without light , to overtake their smaller and slower quarry on those cyclopean steps .
It was very depressing to reflect that the silent pursuing Gugs would not be heard at all , but would come very suddenly and shockingly in the dark upon the climbers .
Nor could the traditional fear of Gugs for ghouls be depended upon in that peculiar place where the advantages lay so heavily with the Gugs .
There was also some peril from the furtive and venomous ghasts , which frequently hopped up onto the tower during the sleep hour of the Gugs .
If the Gugs slept long , and the ghasts returned soon from their deed in the cavern , the scent of the climbers might easily be picked up by those loathsome and ill-disposed things ; in which case it would almost be better to be eaten by a Gug .
Then , after aeons of climbing , there came a cough from the darkness above ; and matters assumed a very grave and unexpected turn .
It was clear that a ghast , or perhaps even more , had strayed into that tower before the coming of Carter and his guides ; and it was equally clear that this peril was very close .
Alter a breathless second the leading ghoul pushed Carter to the wall and arranged his kinfolk in the best possible way , with the old slate tombstone raised for a crushing blow whenever the enemy might come in sight .
Ghouls can see in the dark , so the party was not as badly off as Carter would have been alone .
In another moment the clatter of hooves revealed the downward hopping of at least one beast , and the slab-bearing ghouls poised their weapon for a desperate blow .
Presently two yellowish-red eyes flashed into view , and the panting of the ghast became audible above its clattering .
As it hopped down to the step above the ghouls , they wielded the ancient gravestone with prodigious force , so that there was only a wheeze and a choking before the victim collapsed in a noxious heap .
There seemed to be only this one animal , and after a moment of listening the ghouls tapped Carter as a signal to proceed again .
As before , they were obliged to aid him ; and he was glad to leave that place of carnage where the ghast’s uncouth remains sprawled invisible in the blackness .
At last the ghouls brought their companion to a halt ; and feeling above him , Carter realised that the great stone trap door was reached at last .
To open so vast a thing completely was not to be thought of , but the ghouls hoped to get it up just enough to slip the gravestone under as a prop , and permit Carter to escape through the crack .
They themselves planned to descend again and return through the city of the Gugs , since their elusiveness was great , and they did not know the way overland to spectral Sarkomand with its lion-guarded gate to the abyss .
Mighty was the straining of those three ghouls at the stone of the door above them , and Carter helped push with as much strength as he had .
They judged the edge next the top of the staircase to be the right one , and to this they bent all the force of their disreputably nourished muscles .
Alter a few moments a crack of light appeared ; and Carter , to whom that task had been entrusted , slipped the end of the old gravestone in the aperture .
There now ensued a mighty heaving ; but progress was very slow , and they had of course to return to their first position every time they failed to turn the slab and prop the portal open .
Suddenly their desperation was magnified a thousand fold by a sound on the steps below them .
It was only the thumping and rattling of the slain ghast’s hooved body as it rolled down to lower levels ; but of all the possible causes of that body’s dislodgement and rolling , none was in the least reassuring .
Therefore , knowing the ways of Gugs , the ghouls set to with something of a frenzy ; and in a surprisingly short time had the door so high that they were able to hold it still whilst Carter turned the slab and left a generous opening .
They now helped Carter through , letting him climb up to their rubbery shoulders and later guiding his feet as he clutched at the blessed soil of the upper dreamland outside .
Another second and they were through themselves , knocking away the gravestone and closing the great trap door while a panting became audible beneath .
Because of the Great One’s curse no Gug might ever emerge from that portal , so with a deep relief and sense of repose Carter lay quietly on the thick grotesque fungi of the enchanted wood while his guides squatted near in the manner that ghouls rest .
Weird as was that enchanted wood through which he had fared so long ago , it was verily a haven and a delight after those gulfs he had now left behind .
There was no living denizen about , for Zoogs shun the mysterious door in fear and Carter at once consulted with his ghouls about their future course .
To return through the tower they no longer dared , and the waking world did not appeal to them when they learned that they must pass the priests Nasht and Kaman-Thah in the cavern of flame .
So at length they decided to return through Sarkomand and its gate of the abyss , though of how to get there they knew nothing .
Carter recalled that it lies in the valley below Leng , and recalled likewise that he had seen in Dylath-Leen a sinister , slant-eyed old merchant reputed to trade on Leng , therefore he advised the ghouls to seek out Dylath-Leen , crossing the fields to Nir and the Skai and following the river to its mouth .
This they at once resolved to do , and lost no time in loping off , since the thickening of the dusk promised a full night ahead for travel .
And Carter shook the paws of those repulsive beasts , thanking them for their help and sending his gratitude to the beast which once was Pickman ; but could not help sighing with pleasure when they left .
For a ghoul is a ghoul , and at best an unpleasant companion for man .
After that Carter sought a forest pool and cleansed himself of the mud of nether earth , thereupon reassuming the clothes he had so carefully carried .
It was now night in that redoubtable wood of monstrous trees , but because of the phosphorescence one might travel as well as by day ; wherefore Carter set out upon the well-known route toward Celephais , in Ooth-Nargai beyond the Tanarian Hills .
And as he went he thought of the zebra he had left tethered to an ash-tree on Ngranek in far-away Oriab so many aeons ago , and wondered if any lava-gatherers had fed and released it .
And he wondered , too , if he would ever return to Baharna and pay for the zebra that was slain by night in those ancient ruins by Yath’s shore , and if the old tavernkeeper would remember him .
Such were the thoughts that came to him in the air of the regained upper dreamland .
But presently his progress was halted by a sound from a very large hollow tree .
He had avoided the great circle of stones , since he did not care to speak with Zoogs just now ; but it appeared from the singular fluttering in that huge tree that important councils were in session elsewhere .
Upon drawing nearer he made out the accents of a tense and heated discussion ; and before long became conscious of matters which he viewed with the greatest concern .
For a war on the cats was under debate in that sovereign assembly of Zoogs .
It all came from the loss of the party which had sneaked after Carter to Ulthar , and which the cats had justly punished for unsuitable intentions .
The matter had long rankled ; and now , or at least within a month , the marshaled Zoogs were about to strike the whole feline tribe in a series of surprise attacks , taking individual cats or groups of cats unawares , and giving not even the myriad cats of Ulthar a proper chance to drill and mobilize .
This was the plan of the Zoogs , and Carter saw that he must foil it before leaving upon his mighty quest .
CONTINUES NEXT WEEK… STUCK FAST by Robyn Singer Rose It was as if her arse knew how big it should be .
Two bum cheeks .
Not two bum cheeks sandwiched in a lifeguard’s float .
It hadn’t taken long to lower her down .
The hydraulic lift saw to that .
Once over the porcelain - gleaming white - it was easy to see she wasn’t going to fit .
The lift groaned .
The harness dropped and stalled .
Me , I chucked beer down my beloved 's top .
Not just one beer , either .
Four .
Four pints , straight down the front of her stunning black dress .
The other four tumbled backwards onto me .
I looked up at the stranger .
She stared back .
The world fell silent .
`` I am so , so , sorry , '' I muttered .
`` Shit . ''
She was stunning .
It is n't a cliche to say she took my breath away , and only in part because of the icy beer pooling at my waistband .
Beautiful .
Dark hair with a tinge of red .
Pale skin .
Eyes you could fall into .
A smile that could melt your heart .
And she was smiling , the tip of her tongue poking out the left side of her mouth .
Normally , that kind of thing would annoy me .
Here , it was endearing , and relieving .
Despite the alcohol shower , she seemed amused .
She thrust out her hand , dripping with beer , shimmering in the lights from the club .
`` Hi , '' she said .
`` I 'm Katie . ''
`` Did you have fun ? ''
Jules asked .
She smiled at me lazily , drunkenly .
She lay sprawled across our hotel bed , naked save for her bra which hung off one shoulder .
She was tracing concentric circles on her stomach .
`` Yeah , it was good , '' I told her , undoing my trousers .
`` Was good to see Jim again . ''
`` Did I look nice tonight ? ''
Jules asked .
I was taken aback .
It was n't like her to seek reassurance .
`` You looked great , '' I told her .
I climbed onto the bed beside her and she rested her head on my shoulder .
`` Edward , do you wan na fuck ? ''
she asked .
I frowned .
`` It 's late , and you 're drunk .
We have that tour tomorrow , do n't we ? ''
`` That 's Tuesday , '' she mumbled , leaning against my neck .
Her breath was warm .
She began sliding my t-shirt up , her mouth moving to my chest , kissing , biting gently .
She moved upwards , our lips touching .
I kissed her .
I thought of Katie .
Of her lips , her skin , her smile .
Jules ' hand toyed with me .
I reached down and took it .
`` I do n't like this when you 're drunk , '' I told her .
She pouted at me .
`` You 're such a square . ''
I raised an eyebrow .
`` Gentleman , maybe . ''
Jules snorted with laughter .
`` Yeah , whatever . ''
She guided my hand down between her legs .
`` Jules , come on , '' I said .
I was finding it hard to resist .
`` We can do anything , Edward , '' Jules slurred .
`` Then let 's go to sleep , '' I said .
I saw the hurt in her eyes .
I relented .
I entered Jules .
I thought of Katie .
The next day passed by in a blur of intimacy .
We stayed in the hotel room almost until late , when we took a walk and joined the other guests for our evening meal .
Thankfully , I 'd been able to persuade Jules to choose a slightly more remote hotel , so that between hectic party times we would be able to retreat somewhat .
To say it was n't crowded would be a lie , but the majority of tourists here were older than us , and less prone to antics .
There was a part of me which hoped I 'd never see Katie again .
That she 'd be staying on a different part of the island , that ours was a chance meeting , never to be repeated .
I hoped I could forget her , that she 'd drift out of my life just as quickly as she 'd drifted in .
That part soon evaporated at dinner .
As Jules and I headed to our table , plates in hand , I saw her sitting across the room , her mouth open in silent mirth .
She was not alone .
Across from her sat a portly lad of ruddy skin and a Hollywood stare .
Propped upon his forehead was a pair of Aviators .
He roared with laughter at something Katie said .
Reached across the table , squeezed her hand .
I felt a stab of jealousy .
`` Uh , Edward ? ''
Jules asked .
`` You coming ? ''
I saw her looking across at the table , at Katie and the unknown boy .
She opened her mouth to say something , then closed it again .
The night before , she had not met Katie .
An hour after disappearing for drinks , I 'd returned to my group with a story of roughnecked Greeks and plenty of shoulder-barging .
Katie and I had spent an hour together .
One single , solitary hour .
Sitting outside , beer drying on our clothes , smoking and talking .
We knew nothing about one another even after that time .
There had been chemistry , no doubt about it .
Harmless , no-contact chemistry .
And that was all it should have been .
But here she was , again , sitting nearby .
Calling my name .
`` Edward ! ''
she called again .
And all the seven columns strut peculiarly in single file , legs thrown far forward without bending the knees , down the walks that lead to the seven lodges , wherein they disappear and do not appear again .
It is said that subterrene paths connect the lodges with the temple , and that the long files of priests return through them ; nor is it unwhispered that deep flights of onyx steps go down to mysteries that are never told .
But only a few are those who hint that the priests in the masked and hooded columns are not human beings .
Carter did not enter the temple , because none but the Veiled King is permitted to do that .
But before he left the garden the hour of the bell came , and he heard the shivering clang deafening above him , and the wailing of the horns and viols and voices loud from the lodges by the gates .
And down the seven great walks stalked the long files of bowl-bearing priests in their singular way , giving to the traveler a fear which human priests do not often give .
When the last of them had vanished he left that garden , noting as he did so a spot on the pavement over which the bowls had passed .
Even the ship-captain did not like that spot , and hurried him on toward the hill whereon the Veiled King’s palace rises many-domed and marvelous .
The ways to the onyx palace are steep and narrow , all but the broad curving one where the king and his companions ride on yaks or in yak-drawn chariots .
Carter and his guide climbed up an alley that was all steps , between inlaid walls bearing strange signs in gold , and under balconies and oriels whence sometimes floated soft strains of music or breaths of exotic fragrance .
Always ahead loomed those titan walls , mighty buttresses , and clustered and bulbous domes for which the Veiled King’s palace is famous ; and at length they passed under a great black arch and emerged in the gardens of the monarch’s pleasure .
There it shimmered like a vision under that grey twilight sky , with the domed and fretted magnificence of the palace ahead , and the fantastic silhouette of the distant impassable peaks on the right .
And ever the small birds and the fountains sang , while the perfume of rare blossoms spread like a veil over that incredible garden .
No other human presence was there , and Carter was glad it was so .
Then they turned and descended again the onyx alley of steps , for the palace itself no visitor may enter ; and it is not well to look too long and steadily at the great central dome , since it is said to house the archaic father of all the rumored Shantak-birds , and to send out queer dreams to the curious .
After that the captain took Carter to the north quarter of the town , near the Gate of the Caravans , where are the taverns of the yak-merchants and the onyx-miners .
And there , in a low-ceiled inn of quarrymen , they said farewell ; for business called the captain whilst Carter was eager to talk with miners about the north .
There were many men in that inn , and the traveler was not long in speaking to some of them ; saying that he was an old miner of onyx , and anxious to know somewhat of Inquanok’s quarries .
But all that he learned was not much more than he knew before , for the miners were timid and evasive about the cold desert to the north and the quarry that no man visits .
They had fears of fabled emissaries from around the mountains where Leng is said to lie , and of evil presences and nameless sentinels far north among the scattered rocks .
And they whispered also that the rumored Shantak-birds are no wholesome things ; it being indeed for the best that no man has ever truly seen one ( for that fabled father of Shantaks in the king’s dome is fed in the dark ) .
The next day , saying that he wished to look over all the various mines for himself and to visit the scattered farms and quaint onyx villages of Inquanok , Carter hired a yak and stuffed great leathern saddle-bags for a journey .
Beyond the Gate of the Caravans the road lay straight betwixt tilled fields , with many odd farmhouses crowned by low domes .
At some of these houses the seeker stopped to ask questions ; once finding a host so austere and reticent , and so full of an unplaced majesty like to that in the huge features on Ngranek , that he felt certain he had come at last upon one of the Great Ones themselves , or upon one with full nine-tenths of their blood , dwelling amongst men .
And to that austere and reticent cotter he was careful to speak very well of the gods , and to praise all the blessings they had ever accorded him .
That night Carter camped in a roadside meadow beneath a great lygath-tree to which he tied his yak , and in the morning resumed his northward pilgrimage .
At about ten o’clock he reached the small-domed village of Urg , where traders rest and miners tell their tales , and paused in its taverns till noon .
It is here that the great caravan road turns west toward Selarn , but Carter kept on north by the quarry road .
All the afternoon he followed that rising road , which was somewhat narrower than the great highway , and which now led through a region with more rocks than tilled fields .
And by evening the low hills on his left had risen into sizable black cliffs , so that he knew he was close to the mining country .
All the while the great gaunt sides of the impassable mountains towered afar off at his right , and the farther he went , the worse tales he heard of them from the scattered farmers and traders and drivers of lumbering onyx-carts along the way .
On the second night he camped in the shadow of a large black crag , tethering his yak to a stake driven in the ground .
He observed the greater phosphorescence of the clouds at his northerly point , and more than once thought he saw dark shapes outlined against them .
And on the third morning he came in sight of the first onyx quarry , and greeted the men who there labored with picks and chisels .
Before evening he had passed eleven quarries ; the land being here given over altogether to onyx cliffs and boulders , with no vegetation at all , but only great rocky fragments scattered about a floor of black earth , with the grey impassable peaks always rising gaunt and sinister on his right .
The third night he spent in a camp of quarry men whose flickering fires cast weird reflections on the polished cliffs to the west .
And they sang many songs and told many tales , shewing such strange knowledge of the olden days and the habits of gods that Carter could see they held many latent memories of their sires the Great Ones .
They asked him whither he went , and cautioned him not to go too far to the north ; but he replied that he was seeking new cliffs of onyx , and would take no more risks than were common among prospectors .
In the morning he bade them adieu and rode on into the darkening north , where they had warned him he would find the feared and unvisited quarry whence hands older than men’s hands had wrenched prodigious blocks .
But he did not like it when , turning back to wave a last farewell , he thought he saw approaching the camp that squat and evasive old merchant with slanting eyes , whose conjectured traffick with Leng was the gossip of distant Dylath-Leen .
CONTINUES NEXT WEEK You can discuss this story in the Forum .
THE GRAVEYARD SHIFT by Bryan Carrigan James shone his flashlight down the length of the hallway .
He was sure it was his imagination but he could have sworn that he’d heard one of the doors open and then close again .
It was seventeen minutes past one .
The morgue kept banking hours .
The doors to pathology lab and blood bank were closed and locked .
He felt like an idiot .
He toggled his radio and said , “B-level is quiet.” His radio squawked static .
Edwards came on and said , “A priest , a rabbi , and a minister walk into a bar .
The bartender sees them and says , ‘What is this , a joke ? ’” It was easy to joke from the comforts of the security booth .
Edwards was no doubt watching Sports Center .
He didn’t have to worry about why central supply’s door was unlocked .
The depot’s lights weren’t on .
James left them off , letting his flashlight probe the rows of shelves full of gauze , needles , forceps and scissors .
Junkies had broken into the pharmacy earlier in the month ; B-level was supposed to be locked down as part of the hospital’s new enhanced security protocol .
James toggled his radio .
“I think somebody’s down here.” “No , they’re not , ” Edwards said .
“Hey , did I ever tell you about the time I let a genie out of his lamp ?
He gave me the choice between a perfect memory and a ten-inch cock.” James’s shoe squeaked on the linoleum .
He couldn’t help it .
They were new .
He stopped and listened .
He’d had never realized how loudly he breathed .
It sounded as though he were breathing through a scuba mask .
“You’re supposed to ask me which I chose , ” Edwards said .
“Sorry .
I forgot.” “That’s my line , you jerk.” James very suddenly wanted a cup of coffee .
The undrinkable coffee that they served in the cafeteria .
The well-lit cafeteria with its residents and interns , worried family members and bored administrators .
It wasn’t that he minded working the graveyard shift .
He liked the odd hours and the job suited him , in that it paid him reasonably well , asked very little of him , and left him plenty of time to write .
He’d had two plays produced .
One centered around a trio of radio astronomers who thought they had detected an alien signal only to discover that the signal had been a hoax perpetrated by one of their own in order to secure continued funding for their radioscope .
It had been well received , audiences had laughed at all the right moments , but those laughs hadn’t led to his discovery as the future of American playwriting .
His second play , a romantic comedy , had been a complete disaster .
James thought he heard footsteps out in the hallway .
He gave chase but found the hallway deserted .
“Anything in the northeast stairs ? ” James asked .
“Negative , ” Edwards replied .
James retraced his steps , checking each door .
The pharmacy was secure ; it wasn’t a junkie .
The film library was locked up tight .
The janitorial closet was open , but there wasn’t anything inside worth stealing .
“A guy’s sitting in a bar , quietly getting drunk .
The guy next to him yells out ‘26 ! ’ and everyone laughs .
Whatever .
He just got his card punched .
He orders another martini .
Someone else ‘17 ! ’ and the place goes nuts .
His whole life , all he’s wanted is to be a cop , and it turns out he’s got a heart murmur .
Medically disqualified .
But a woman in a red dress blurts out ‘9 ! ’ and everyone is cracking up .
What the hell , he figures .
He raises his glass and yells ‘23 ! ’ Crickets .
“‘Some people can tell a joke , ’ the bartender says .
‘You , not so much.’” “I hate that joke , ” James said .
“C’mon , it’s a classic.” The door to the morgue was open .
James nudged it open with his flashlight .
It was entirely possible that someone had died in the ER and an overzealous intern had brought the body down for processing .
He revealed nothing .
The psychiatrist continued .
“I have it written here you have behavioural issues .
Want to tell me a bit about what’s been happening ? ” James just stared stoically back , though his look was not a harsh one , just self protective and cautious .
Silence would be his friend regardless of what Bernie had said .
The psychiatrist had seen this before though , and only vaguely hid the curl of his lip .
He did however up the shots , because for him , the kid wasn’t leaving until he shared what it was he wanted so badly to hide .
He had read the file of course , the statements from the teachers , and reports by James’s father , and of course , the police reports .
James was young , however , and was unlikely to know that he was already an open book .
“You didn’t sleep last night .
All the checks said you were up staring at the window all night James .
What were you looking at ? ” Again , nothing .
Perhaps , the psychiatrist reasoned , trust was an issue still fresh for the boy given the teacher James had confided in about his hallucinations had promptly told his father .
As if they wouldn’t have .
James’s grades , social interaction and general conduct had plummeted since his mother’s death .
After the boy had started fighting with the older kids , the school had had to intervene and caution him .
When his father had turned down repeated requests to attend the office to discuss the issues , the boy had explained that his father was scared to punish him anymore .
Pressed further , the only response he had initially given was that his father was scared James’s mother would ‘get him’ .
“Do you often have trouble sleeping James ? ” When there again was no response , the psychiatrist openly smiled , leaning his elbows on the table in front of him .
“You know I can keep at this all day.” There was only one common thread in James’s violent outbursts at school and with his peers .
The subject of his mother .
“Were you waiting for your mother ? ” There it was , the flicker in his eyes and the double blink .
The psychiatrist leaned back smugly .
“So you can hear me .
That’s a start.” James let out a jagged breath as he decided what to say , if anything .
This man , this doctor obviously knew some things .
Maybe he already knew everything .
James held his tongue .
“I read the police report on your mother – and the one on your classmate .
At least the last one before you came here .
He was making some crack about your mother , and how she died – falling to her death like that .
Said she was drunk.” James’s resolve crumbled .
The burning feeling of bile rising in his throat revisited him as it had the day he had held a piece of broken mirror against a classmate’s neck for speaking ill of his mother .
Never mind the glass had been smashed by James’s own head by the boy who had later pressed charges .
Never mind the year lead in of bullying , bad jokes and snide comments that had contributed to James’s one moment of desperate retaliation .
Never mind all of that , because for all the small things James had done , this one big thing had been deemed an ‘escalation’ of his violence and the police had promptly become involved .
James couldn’t stand the comments .
Not even after a year of taking them since his mother had gone .
“She isn’t really dead.” James managed to stumble .
He chewed on his lip after .
“Police report says otherwise .
Says she fell off an incline on the way home from having drinks with friends one night.” James shook his head and averted his eyes .
“Tell me what happened the night your mother died ? ” “She didn’t die .
I told you.” James bit .
“So explain it to me.” “Why ? ” James felt his need for understanding betrayed his need to be quiet , to protect himself .
“So I can understand.” James thought deeply .
No one had asked him what had happened that day – just taken what his dad had said as gospel .
“James , I have heard and seen a great many strange things in my time .
You can trust me to do the best I possibly can to help you get out of here.” James looked confused at the remark .
“The point is to get people out of here , not keep them in.” the psychiatrist explained .
James relaxed , as he was supposed to .
“My mum came home that night.” “What night ? ” the psychiatrist knew well what night .
“The night they say she died.” James nearly whispered it .
“She had been out.” “Once a month – mum went to Kathy’s house.” Her best friend according to the reports .
“But Dad had friends over too .
She was mad when she came home , because he promised to watch the game with me , but he invited them over and I was in my room.” “And that made your mum mad ? ” As suspected James shook his head and touched the scar on his face without even realising it .
“Something else happened.” the psychiatrist encouraged .
“I was crying .
He said not to cry , only babies cry , but it hurt , and I didn’t know what would happen.” “What happened ? ” James thought back to that night as he recalled to the psychiatrist what he had seen .
He had been watching some of the football game with his Dad , and two of his father’s friends until he had asked too many questions about the players and the rules .
One of his Dad’s friends , Grant had then unceremoniously taken James’s seat from him by saying there had been ice cream in the kitchen .
When James had come back disappointed there was no ice cream , and then angry he had been tricked , he had told Grant he was stupid and that had been it .
His father had dragged the boy to his room and hit him with his belt to teach him not to be insolent , but for the first time ever James had fought back , trying to knock his father away , and in the affray the belt buckle had connected with his face , leaving a large gash across his cheek .
James had wept into his pillow as his dad scolded him for being weak before returning to his friends and the last half hour of the warm up game .
His mother had returned just over an hour later , angry that the boy was not being watched and then livid when she found her son bloodied and trembling .
Though he could feel her ire , like waves of irradiating heat flowing from her usual calm façade , she had said and done nothing to betray her emotions until after she cleaned his wound and patched the skin together with her first aid kit .
The gash had been made with malevolence , but he always would remember it with fondness for the way she gently took care of him .
The last time she had touched him .
The thought brought stinging tears to James’ eyes , and he couldn’t help but start talking .
James explained how his mother had given him something for the pain , a kiss on the forehead , that he remembered how her medallion that hung on her neck clunking against his chin .
Then she had tucked him in to bed , before going to face his father .
James had , of course , snuck out behind her , watching her fists clench and release as she walked the stairs .
Her long white dress danced at her feet as she walked the long corridor to the dining room where his father and friends sat at the table booing the latest change in the course of the game .
From the doorway she had calmly called to him .
“I need to talk to you Harold.” Knowing the topic of conversation and hearing the tone in her voice , Harold , James’s father , didn’t even look up .
“I’m in the middle of a game.” He dismissed .
“I need to talk to you now.” she had pressed .
“No.” Harold’s friends had made faces and poorly concealed smirks .
His mother walked up to the table and smacked her palms on the surface , laying them flat before curling her fingers so the points of her nails dug into the cheap finish .
“Did you hurt him ? ” she yelled , though Harold , still obstinate , didn’t look up .
He had many years before made sure she never spoke out of turn .
Now she had new friends , he deduced he had let her roam too far .
The embarrassment peaked his blood pressure as he ground his teeth figuring out what was the best level of response to her indiscretion , in front of his friends no less .
“Did you hurt my boy ? ” she insisted , knowing full well the answer , her own scars burning against her clothes .
James could barely see from his vantage point , so crept further down the stairs and peered down the dark corridor into the sharp fluorescent lighting .
“I’m…” his father started softly , but built as he rose to standing , “In the middle of a game ! ” His friends grew quiet as Harold stared his wife down menacingly .
In the bitter silence Harold yearned to fill the room with the sounds of his retribution .
Instead , her fingernails broke , cracking under the pressure she placed on them in her rage .
She stared at the tabletop incensed , seeing nothing but her son’s bloodied face in her mind , and feeling the sharp sting of the memories of the pain she accepted but never deserved over the years .
James crept down the corridor , nearing the doorway to the room his mother occupied .
“Hey ! ” Harold’s friends shouted in response to seeing the tips of her fingers bead with blood from the broken nails as they looked up at her alarmed .
The glasses of scotch and coke that sat in front of them started to bubble , the contents wisping away as though boiled from within the very glasses that held them .
Once they could draw themselves from the shock of what they saw , they stood on shaky feet , staring at her .
When she looked back at them , moving nothing but her eyes , her usual cool blue irises were black , the whites of her eyes now as red as the blood that pumped with vigour through all their ears .
Everyone took a step back , but no one more than Harold feared the movement would catch her eye .
The momentary silence was broken only by the cheers of the television set at the end of the dining table as James’s mother and Harold locked eyes .
She shrieked , an unholy sound that shattered the glass from the television .
With one swift move of her hand , she overturned the table sending it flying across the room .
The three men stood back , near huddling at the sight of her , white dress , black and blood ridden eyes staring at him , at them .
She hissed like a cat as her shoulders rose and she sidled left and right as though deciding where to strike first .
Sometimes with a belt , sometimes a wooden spoon , sometimes with their hands .
It happens .
Doesn’t it , Maeve ? ” She shook her head , stared vacantly at the knife .
“I guess I have to call your folks and tell them you were playing with this large knife , ” Freddy said regretfully .
“The deal was for honesty .
You’re not being honest.” “Please don’t call them , ” she whimpered .
“Please don’t call them , Mr. Thompson.” “One last chance for honesty .
Do they ever hurt you ? ” “If I say yes , ” her eyes now misty , “you’re going to tell them I told you.” “And what will happen then ? ” “I’ll be in red trouble.” “Red ? ” Freddy and Beth said in unison .
Maeve’s eyes blinked wide .
“Big !
I said big ! ” Beth asked Maeve to stay put for a moment and signaled her counterpart for a word alone .
Thirty feet from the girl whose head was buried in her folded arms on the table , Beth said , “Oh my dear Lord .
Poor thing .
We have to do something.” “I know , ” he said with the grim realization of what needed to be done and the fallout it would bring , namely on Maeve .
“What do you propose ? ” “Let’s talk to Harvey , ” the school’s principal , “see what he says.” * * * Maeve Marlowe sat before her bedroom desk , legs treading air under the seat of her chair , as she read Nathaniel Hawthorne’s Scarlet Letter .
Granted , she didn’t know any of the words , but as always she looked her part , and what more could her parents ask for ?
She paid no attention to the phone ringing .
She remembered the kitten she had encountered on her walk to school this morning and smiled at the thought of petting it again .
Hopefully it would be by the Anderson’s front yard again tomorrow .
Its long gray fur was the softest on earth , she guessed .
It meowed the quietest she’d ever heard from a cat .
She wished she could have another pet .
A kitten this time .
The door opened .
She knew their look well .
Too well .
Red Trouble .
Chapter 1 “Maeve Minnow , precious as thee be , lend me your favor , I’m yours an eternity.” Maeve bolted upright in her bed , clutching her blankets .
“Who said that ? ” “In the valley of the barren , seek me .
In the wasteland it stands .
A tree.” “I don’t understand .
This is a dream.” “I am yours , you are mine .
In the soil is my release , the undoing of time .
Save me.” “Mom ! ” A short moment later the door opened .
A thick silhouette asked what her problem was .
“There’s someone in my room ! ” “You had a nightmare .
Go back to sleep.” “Could you turn the light on ?
I think it’s under the bed.” “Do you want a spanking ?
Go to sleep , there’s nothing under your bed.” “Please , Mom ?
I wouldn’t ask if it were a dream .
Please ? ” Her mother turned her head and summoned Luke .
“Your daughter is acting up ! ” “No , I’m sorry , Mom .
Don’t get Dad .
I’ll go back to sleep.” “Are you going to behave ? ” “I promise.” “Good .
Now get to sleep .
We’re leaving early tomorrow .
The last thing I need is a bratty kid who didn’t get enough sleep.” Behind the larger , a thinner silhouette appeared .
“What’s the matter ?
Is she having another nightmare ? ” “Wouldn’t you know it .
Ten years old and still believes in the bogeyman .
I took care of it.” She closed the door .
The room was lost to the shadows of deep night once again .
“Maeve Minnow , precious as thee be , lend me your favor , I’m yours an eternity.” “Go away ! ” Maeve bellowed , though she did so hushedly .
She pulled the blanket up over her head , covered her ears and sung quietly .
“There’s a hole in the bucket , dear Liza , dear Liza , there’s a hole in the bucket dear Liza , there’s a hole .
Then fix it dear Henry , dear Henry , dear Henry , then fix it dear Henry , then fix it.” “In the soil , in the barrens , excavating for a time , Dwelt a miner forty-niner and his servant Clementine.” Maeve sung , “Oh my darling , oh my darling , Oh my darling , Clementine .
Thou art lost and gone forever , dreadful sorry , Clementine.” She removed her hands from her ears and listened .
“In a churchyard on a hillside where the flowers grow and twine , there grow roses amongst the posies , on the grave of Clementine.” “In my dreams she still doth haunt me , robed in garments soaked in brine ; though in life I used to hug her , now she’s dead I’ll draw the line .
Oh my darling , oh my darling , oh my da-aarling Clementine.” “Past the churchyard on a hillside where the flowers grow and twine , amongst the wasteland there’s an Oak standing on the grave of Clementine.” Maeve hummed the chorus and settled into a deep comfort .
Soon she grew too sleepy to sing , then fell asleep .
“Help me.” Chapter 2 It was the kind of sunny spring day that inspired poetry .
Maeve was drawing on her notepad when the station wagon pulled off the main road onto a dirt road .
It cut through a meadow of devil-grass and budding yellow and white flowers , and continued for a curious stretch before it dead-ended at the base of a grassy knoll , where an Oldsmobile and Cadillac were parked .
On the low hill was a laughably crude wooden-plank shack that may or may not have been a vagrant’s house .
There were no windows , the roof flat .
A three car garage may have outsized it .
Luke parked the wagon beside the pair of pollen-dusted cars .
Doors swung open ; Mother ordered Maeve to come along and bring her book .
She snatched her Tale of Two Cities novel , notepad and pencil , and slid off the vinyl bench seat to the matted-down grass .
Her mom saw the notepad and gave her a look , the one that meant business .
The notepad was returned to the wagon .
The three lumbered up the knoll’s beaten path to the muffled conversation of adults inside the shack .
A single door distinguished the dwelling from perhaps the world’s largest shipping crate .
It stood open .
“Sit down somewhere and read , ” said her portly mother .
“Don’t wander off and I don’t want to hear a peep.” Maeve nodded and sat on a clearing of flattened grass beside a clump of rushes growing against the wooden shack .
With a sigh she opened her book where a page was dog-eared .
The door closed .
She stretched her legs out in front of her and rested the book on her lap , reclined against her locked arms and scoped out her surroundings .
The place was pretty , she thought , aside from the house-thing .
The flowers especially .
The spring breeze carried with it the hints of what those flowers ( where they daisies ? )
might smell like if she applied herself .
A bird cawed its suspicion at Maeve from a nearby tree .
Fair-weather clouds scudded across the late-morning sky .
The door grated open on its hinges .
A motherly head peeked through the opening and saw that Maeve was doing as instructed , then retreated back inside .
“Oh my darlin’ , oh my darlin’ , oh my darlin’ Clementine , ” she sung .
“Maeve Minnow , precious as thee be , lend me your favor , down by the tree.” “You , ” she said contemptuously .
“Who’s saying that ?
Where are you ? ” “Your friend , my sweet Minnow , your friend .
The other side of the hill is where you ought to be.” “No way , Jose .
I’ll get my hide tanned for sure.” “Place your faith in me now and for eternity , and I promise that you will be forever safe .
Leave now and they won’t learn of your adventure .
It is time.” “Why should I have faith in you ?
I don’t know who you are .
Show yourself and maybe I’ll go.” She got up and looked around .
The grass was tall .
Was he hiding in the grass ?
“I wish I could , but you first have to help me at the tree .
My mind made up , I decided to forego my meeting with Valérie and set off directly for home .
Yet , as I coasted down through the park , heading due north , my bike seemed to steer itself east .
Before I knew it , I stood astride the bar of my Tourist , staring at the large glass window looking into Harvey’s Drug .
Valérie sat at the counter , waggling her fingers my direction .
I thought to leave , but- through no will of my own- dropped my bike haphazardly on its side and went in .
“Glad you made it.” She gushed .
“I can not stay.” I answered , rigidly , “I’m expected home.” Valérie leaned up to me , “You can stay for a little while , Alan Rand.” To my own amazement , I took the stool next to hers and repeated the words back , “I can stay for a little while…” “How did try-outs go ? ” “Not well , I’m afraid .
Apparently my fingering leaves something to be desired.” Of all the inappropriate gestures- Valérie placed her hand right on my knee , “I think your fingering is extremely desirable.” I nearly fell from my stool , “Miss !
Please refrain from physical contact ! ” Valérie only proceeded to inch up to my thigh , “Relax , Alan .
There’s no need to be uptight.” Uptight ?
How dare she ?
“You have misinterpreted my intentions for coming here if you believe such behavior is acceptable , ” I said harshly , picking up her hand and carefully depositing it back into her own lap .
Her smile , I will admit , looked beguiling , “Then why are you here , Alan Rand ? ” The question threw me aback for I had no viable answer .
Oddly enough , I began to feel as if I’d been brought there against my own free will .
Avoiding Valérie’s provocative leer , I slid free of her roving hand and got to my feet .
“I made a mistake , ” I told her , looking at my watch , “And now I’m overdue.” Valérie stood , uncaring of any stirs her action would cause among the other patrons , coming in to stand offensively close .
She slid her hands round to my bottom , and pulled us tightly together .
“Yes , Alan Rand- I’d say you’re long overdue.” Smiling , she let me go .
With no way of hiding my disgrace , I stalked to the door , heads turning to glare as I passed .
I felt I’d come to the bottom of this little game ; Valérie Libidowitz , drawing me into a meeting only to falsely—and publically— seduce me .
I could not get away from the vile girl fast enough .
Oh Mister Prim-and-proper .
I watched him get on his dark green bike and , standing on the pedals for traction , take off down the high street .
His bum winked at me , bobbing from side to side .
He did have a delightful ass .
I finished my milkshake in my own time , despite the recriminatory stares from some of the drug-store clientele .
As usual , I reported my progress to Amos , and felt surprised that he paid so much attention .
“Why Alan Rand ? ” He looked at me , and I seemed to remember every time he’d touched me , all at once .
My skin crawled uncontrollably .
“He’s the new face.” I shook my head .
“I don’t get it.” “Valérie , my dear , you’re a hundred years old .
Of course you don’t get it .
It’s a young girl’s thing .
Ask any of the other kids at school who the school ‘looker’ is.” He advanced on me .
“Young movie goers don’t flock to see Clark Gable anymore , he’s old news .
The girls liked James Dean , they’re changing their tastes .
This new Elvis Presley is the same .
For us to keep the girls interested , we have to change our new face too.” “But he’s a complete prig ! ” “And we have a lifetime to knock that out of him .
Alan is perfect , trust me.” “But Amos , he’s a wimp.” “Oh , he’ll be fine .
I’ll find a cruel streak inside him , if I have to put it there myself.” Then and there , in the deep gleam of Amos’ eyes , I saw the plan .
In Alan Rand , Amos had his lure , vampirism the medium , and a whole new batch of fresh bedfellows for Amos surely the goal ; young ones , lured by the new ‘pied piper’ .
I pitied the girls , yet felt glad that my age now put me beyond such punishments .
“Get him interested , Valérie .
That’s all you have to do .
Get him sniffing between your legs , and leave the rest to me.” As I headed for my house , I realized that proved easier said than done , because for some reason Alan had ignored all my usual opening moves .
So I set to the indirect , choosing the oblique pathway .
I set out to glean his interests , his goals .
Turns out he didn’t have any .
On the surface Alan Rand seemed a very private person ; no real friends , a true loner .
No girls either ; not one girl in the school could claim that he paid them any attention at all .
My investigation had lasted all of two hours , using a bit of speed between interviews .
I determined to get closer , and that meant peeking through the keyhole , so to speak .
I ran over to his house , and found a nice bush to hide behind , whilst I ear-wigged on the conversation inside .
As suspected , dinner lay set by the time I made it home at five-twenty-six .
I had gravely miscalculated the extra time my detour would cost ; pumping pedals while sporting an engorged penis made for slow progress- uncomfortable at that , I might add .
Fortunately , the physical exertion had alleviated that issue .
Yet the slow pace had created another .
Mother sat perched at the head of the table , empty plate before her , hands folded pristinely in her lap .
As always , she’d prepared three place settings : one for herself , one for me and the third for my deceased father .
As I approached the dining room , Mother’s eyes were as vacant and perplexing as the empty chair Father had once occupied .
The sight of roast beef , surrounded by new potatoes and baby carrots roused my hunger .
Yet , I knew there lay little chance I would be partaking of any of it tonight .
“Would you care to explain yourself , Alan ? ” Mother’s words jabbed at me like a fork .
“I had try-outs today , Mother , ” I held up my clarinet case as proof of testimony .
“Yes .
I recall .
Try-outs were to end at four-thirty , Alan .
Did they go long ? ” The lie bobbled in my throat , but I choked it down like a hunk of dry bread .
It would have been a useless gesture ; certainly Mother would be calling Mr. Schuster to confirm my alibi had I resorted to one .
“They ended on time.” I stated flatly .
“Then I see no reason why you should be sixteen minutes late for supper , Alan.” “I was careless , Mother .
It won’t happen again.” Mother rose from the table , a motion so graceful not even the chair got disturbed by it .
The light from the overhead chandelier glinted off the smooth surface of her favorite strand of pearls- the ones Father had given on her birthday the year of his death .
Mother never failed to wear them at our evening meal .
Her coral-pink dress fluttered as she seemed to float over to me , expressionless .
Though she came only to my shoulders , Mother’s presence filled the room from wall to wall .
I felt but a flat shadow in her midst .
“Careless ? ” she replied , a million accusations wrapped in two syllables , “How so ? ” I tried to be both as honest and vague as possible , “I stopped to talk to somebody and lost track of time.” “Who were you talking to ? ” My tongue swelled in my mouth .
Each of my acquaintances had been boys handpicked for me early on ; mother knew each of them , their families and phone numbers .
Any accomplice to my tardiness I could name would be verified , my falsehood exposed immediately .
I had to take that chance ; for , in this instance , the truth would carry a far greater punishment than the lie .
“Trent Coombs.” I had to force the name passed my lips , knowing once it hit the air there would be no taking it back .
Mother turned on her heel , toward the kitchen telephone .
Dutifully , I followed .
Each spin of the dial seemed to take an eternity .
Like a chameleon changing color , the pitch of her voice lifted and peeled with a charm reserved only for strangers .
“Lorraine ?
This is Sophia Rand.” A deep chill set in her eyes as Mrs. Coombs confirmed her worst suspicions .
I felt the familiar shiver on my neck as she set the receive loudly back on its cradle , sounding all the world like a gavel pounding on my sentencing .
“Trent came down with the measles two days ago , Alan ; he’s been restricted in his room ever since.” A flash of something malicious tugged at the corners of Mother’s mouth ; she seldom smiled and it when she did , it never boded well for me .
Reflexively , I took a step backward .
Stupidly , I fumbled for another lie if only to delay the inevitable , “I didn’t mean Trent ; it was Ralph…” “Who is she ? ” Mother’s eyes sparkled , I stood caught in them like a deer on the highway .
I spoke the name robotically , “Valérie .
Valérie Libidowitz.” I never even saw her flinch , let alone reach for the phone .
Mother swung the receiver into my cheek , connecting with my jaw in a resounding crack .
Smoothly she turned as the stars cleared from my vision , collecting the plates in a tidy stack and setting them on the counter .
The platter , roast and all , cleared into the trash can unceremoniously .
“I am never to hear of this girl’s name in my house again ; you are not to go sneaking around with common whores behind my back .
You will not bring shame or scandal down on this household.” I took Mother’s berating without retort , no declaration of innocence .
In her mind , my guilt lay absolute , no defense would be permitted .
The voices were clamoring for me to take notice when all I really wanted was to escape .
I knew people were scared .
What I didn’t know was that , by then , it was too late .
The worst was yet to come and the disease only the beginning .
Chapter I - Breaking Points My name is William Hill .
I’m forty-two .
Like most people , I have a middle name .
I’ve never cared for it though .
My father insisted on William as it’s something of a family name .
Look back along my line and for as many generations as there are records , you’ll find a William tucked away somewhere .
When it comes to the moniker sitting in the middle , well , he liked history and folk heroes .
The day might come when I’ll shoot an apple off my son’s head and live up to the legend .
I doubt it though , seeing as how I’m about as accurate with a bow and arrow as a politician is with the truth .
This is the part of the story where you get to suffer .
It’s not that I want you grimacing while you work your way through , but what follows couldn’t have happened without the background .
So , that’s where we’re going .
I have no brothers or sisters , a fact I attribute to my father having celebrated his thirty-eighth birthday three days before I came into the world .
He , of course , laid the blame at my feet for the lack of siblings , joking that after two years with me , he and Mom both swore off ever having another .
I believed the story for a while , up to the point where I could put thirty-eight and eighteen together and realized how old he’d be at graduation .
At some point along the line came the understanding that I hadn’t exactly been planned either .
All joking aside , I guess one accident proved enough for both of them .
My dad could do anything .
That’s not stretching the truth , nor is it a son’s blind adoration .
Put anything broken in front of him , he could fix it .
He’d never attended college and didn’t even make it out of high school .
Yet the man could quote Shakespeare and work differential equations .
He carried a legendary status in the neighborhood .
People brought him everything from personal problems to busted TVs and somehow , everyone went home with a smile .
He fixed things for everyone .
Everyone , that is , except me .
I can’t remember when he started helping rather than doing .
That’s how far back he insisted I think on the problem and work at it before he’d step in .
Most of the time , I felt like a dolt , like God had put something in his head that he’d mistakenly left out of mine .
Sometimes I actually hated him for it .
I could go to any other kid’s house , see him slip a chain on his bike or break some toy , and watch his father waddle out to fix it for him .
My dad would hand me a wrench or a screwdriver or whatever tool he thought would do the job and then leave me standing while he headed off to his own projects .
I learned quickly to at least attempt the fix myself before tracking him down .
He never resisted or said anything when I did , but watching him work so easily through what had kept me baffled left me feeling low enough on the intelligence ladder that it seemed I had to look up to see double digits .
Then came the Saturdays and weekends , the summers when he decided I could help him on his projects .
I can’t remember more miserable days .
They lasted from breakfast to dinner , endlessly long days when other kids played , swam , watched TV , and generally acted their age .
Instead , I mixed concrete or tore down a starter motor to change the bushings or framed in walls for a new addition on someone’s house .
The laundry list of projects had no end .
When he checked one off , he started another and took his favorite assistant along for the ride .
I didn’t realize at the time that the work boiled down to Dad’s way of teaching me to be a man .
Even if I had , I’m sure the days would have sucked just as bad .
I also didn’t understand the time involved a higher concept , one that skirted his disdain for most social structures .
John Walker Hill loved people , but carried a deep dislike not so much of society , but how it functioned .
He saw most people as encircled by technology and products they were taught to use rather than understand .
More than once I heard him express the idea that generation by generation we were devolving to a level where we existed like vultures , feeding off a few bright minds without ever learning to exercise our own .
The value of that lesson didn’t make itself apparent until much later in life .
When I finally understood what he had given me in those years , what had been passed from father to son , I should have thanked him .
I never had the chance .
By then , we stood at odds on another subject , one too emotional to ignore .
My father also hated paying taxes .
The words behind the lament varied from year to year , but the message and feeling behind it remained consistent .
“Damn it , Maggie , ” he would rail at my mother .
“I’m paying these people to turn the country into a land of zombies and idiots.” At the same time , he insisted I join the very structures he so despised , advising me in no uncertain terms that I would walk the stages at both high school and college graduations and that , by God , he would be there to watch me do it .
I shouldn’t make it sound as if Dad ruled with an iron fist or demanded all waking time be spent between work and study .
He believed a well-rounded physical education necessary for a healthy mind .
When I went through the sports phase , he sat in the bleachers and cheered along with the rest of the parents .
About the time I turned twelve , he introduced me to an old man down the street who’d spent his life in a gym teaching both kids and parents everything from workout routines to martial arts .
He went by the name of Virgil and had to be at least seventy years old when I met him .
He was totally bald and sported a perfectly white Fu Manchu mustache .
The old man stood about my height , but looked thirty pounds leaner and wiry , like a snake .
I’d seen him before , heard Dad talk about him , but never dealt with him myself .
I’ll get to Virgil a bit later , but suffice it to say that where my father took on the task of teaching me to be what he considered a contributing member of the society he shunned , Virgil taught me how to walk through it without being afraid .
At sixteen , I had the first real break with my father -- a good one .
Up to that point , I had been the follower in virtually every aspect of our relationship .
On a warm and sunny afternoon three weeks before school let out for the summer , I settled down at the kitchen table , grumbling and muttering curses under my breath , all of them directed at Juanita Whatley , my scowling and diminutive gnome of a science teacher .
Homework assignments had fallen to a school-year low in my other classes , with most of the instructors as tired of grading the papers as we were of slaving over them .
Not so with Juanita , or Wacky Whatley as we called her .
She stood maybe five feet tall , if that , wore a buzz cut that would have made any Marine proud and started the school year promising each and every one of us would learn to hate her .
She was right .
We did .
She also promised that we would learn much more than physics .
On the first day , she sent chills through the entire class .
Banging on her desk with a ruler and glaring out over the room , she uttered a prophecy that would have scared the hell out of anyone with a brain .
“By the time you leave , you will never look at another word problem , either in school or in life , with fear again.” She was right on that account as well .
We had no choice .
She bombarded us with them .
Academic life under Wacky Whatley turned out to be a live or die proposition .
You either learned to assimilate equations from wordy and rambling descriptions or you failed miserably .
My father , of course , approved of her wholeheartedly .
In any case , I ended up in a chapter called “The Physics of Sound.” We’d skimmed through that section earlier in the year .
I can’t remember what pulled me back to flip through the pages , but situated in the middle of a long and utterly dry narrative , unfettered by the usual scattering of Greek symbols that left many equations looking like hieroglyphics , lay a simple formula for calculating frequencies in an open pipe .
Like a cartoon character , the idea that blossomed felt like a light bulb had suddenly clicked on inside my head .
Two days before , I’d dropped a socket from my father’s toolbox onto a concrete floor by accident and had been amazed at how that simple piece of steel sounded just like a tiny bell .
The instant I saw the equation , the image of extra water pipes stored in the workshop transformed into a wall of music .
I took hacksaw to hand at the first chance .
What should have tolled wonderfully soft notes , however , clanged and clunked .
I scratched my head over the reasons and reworked the formula for each note , but came up with the same lengths .
I remember staring at the paper , wondering what I missed .
The next day , after Wacky had dismissed class , I walked up to her desk with textbook in hand .
She glanced up , managing to look both annoyed and curious at the same time .
Neither emotion took me by surprise .
Few had the courage to approach her unless they damned well had to .
A student standing in front of her desk neither sweating nor summoned must have taken her aback .
As for the annoyed expression , Juanita Whatley always looked pissed and ready to wallop someone across the head -- if for no other reason than to knock the ignorance out the other side .
I laid the open book on her desk and told her what I’d tried to do .
“It sure looks like someone is planning on staying warm tonight , ” she said and shot me another glaring look .
I took a deep breath , looked up at a star forming in the darkening sky , and wondered what I’d done to get on her bad side .
Finding the others proved easy .
One of them had built a huge fire in the middle of what turned out to be little more than a loose collection of buildings .
Calling the place a town implied streets , sidewalks , signs -- at least in my mind it did .
Calling it a ghost town drew those same thoughts into images straight out of TV westerns .
I half expected to see hitching rails , a saloon with a weather-beaten sign creaking in the wind , even sage brush rolling down a dusty road .
In that manner , Portsmouth came off a bit disappointing .
The buildings were spaced a good distance from each other .
Hard-packed , sandy lanes ran between them .
Too narrow to call streets , too wide to call paths , they stood out like white veins against a wide open expanse of carefully clipped grass and trees so evenly spaced and healthy that the entire area carried a landscaped feel to it .
Aside from architecture a century old , the structures stood straighter and probably cleaner than the days when Portsmouth actually had residents .
The place looked like a museum , which it was .
The Park Service and local historic groups not only did the maintenance , but also watched over the old village during the summer months .
The town even carried what had to be the only ban on the entire island .
Campers could set up a tent virtually anywhere on Portsmouth except here , among houses built in an era when people lived simply and the ocean both gave and took life .
I winced when I saw the fire .
Any other time , any other night , the meeting might conjure up a park ranger with a scowl on his face and a ticket book in hand .
Hell , he might have even brought handcuffs .
Nine figures moved behind the dancing flames .
In the dwindling light , it took a bit to find the familiar faces of the two who had greeted me at the beach .
Joshua and the girl stood on the opposite side of the fire .
Both had donned heavier , warmer clothing .
Although the meeting had evidently been planned as a social gathering , the people attending stood out in two obvious groups .
Joshua and the girl had two other couples close by .
Several feet away , two men and a woman sat in camp chairs pulled up close together .
Looking at them , I felt old .
While forty-two wasn’t exactly over the hill , neither group had anyone who appeared even close to thirty .
I glanced at Elsie , wondering if she felt like a school teacher greeting her new kindergarten class .
Joshua waved .
He seemed big on waving .
I decided to humor him and waved back .
He detached himself from his group and came around the fire .
I introduced him to Elsie and Daniel .
She took one look at him and put her hands on her hips .
“Joshua , now that’s a fine Bible name .
But I have to say , you look more like Moses to me.” He laughed and began his own introductions .
The girl who had been with him at the beach still wore her ponytail .
She was pretty in a hard kind of way .
I don’t mean that as jaded .
The woman had virtually no extra weight on her , leaving her face angular instead of rounded .
She reminded me of a workout and diet guru , the kind of person who always fussed over extra calories and needed to lose another ten pounds .
Her name turned out to be Denise Marten .
The two men with them were as different as two people could be .
One was short , thin enough to be anorexic , and had the kind of features a graphic artist would love -- high cheekbones and a nose carved so sharp that half his face glowed in the firelight while the other half dwelt in the land of shadows .
His name was Devon .
The other man stood half a foot taller and weighed at least a hundred pounds more .
Joshua introduced him as Keith .
He looked soft and out of shape .
Where Devon came across as brooding and jittery , Keith could have doubled as Santa at Christmas .
All he needed was a big white beard .
He already had the belly and the kind smile .
The two women , he introduced as Kate and Jessie .
Kate stood taller , had shoulder-length blonde hair and calculating eyes .
She offered a trite smile when I nodded .
Jessie’s hair was dark , longer and kept straying across her face in a wild , windblown tangle .
She didn’t smile .
She grinned at me , and then hugged both Elsie and Daniel .
I couldn’t tell if she was simply one of those touchy-feely people who spread hugs and smiles from an internal need to be accepted , or if she was genuinely friendly .
Elsie settled that dilemma when she turned and breathed a soft whisper .
“That’s a good girl right there.” The final three sat in folding camp chairs eight or ten feet away .
They neither rose nor stopped working at the edges of pouches I assumed contained dinner .
The woman sat in the middle .
She had short dark hair , big eyes and an equally big smile .
She waved a plastic knife .
“I’m Kelly , ” she said and pointed left then right .
“That’s Zack , this is Tyler.” Tyler looked up through a mop of dark hair .
Describing his position as sitting stretched the term considerably .
He looked more like he was trying to lie in the chair , with his ass perched so far forward it nearly hung off the front .
Six inches of underwear lay bare above the top of his jeans .
“Sup ? ” he asked .
“Go ahead , ” I replied .
He frowned .
“What do you mean ? ” I sighed , not wanting to start off on the wrong foot with anyone .
Tyler though , invited the worst in me .
“To sup is to eat , ” I told him .
“Like I said , go ahead.” I turned to Elsie before he could say anything else .
“Want to spread out here ?
I didn’t think to bring a tarp so I guess we’ll be sitting on the grass.” Given her earlier mood , I expected a sharp retort , something reminding me again that I was male and rarely thought of others .
Instead she smiled sweetly , her eyes full of humor .
“Yes , this will do , ” she said and glanced toward Tyler .
“I wouldn’t mind getting about the business of supping myself.” Elsie’s dinner drew appraising looks from around the fire .
I could understand why .
The kayakers looked to be dining on military-surplus MREs -- Meal’s Ready to Eat .
The spread in front of Joshua’s crowd appeared equally skimpy and ill-tasting with the bulk of it consisting of packets of dried noodles and soup .
“She cooked enough for everyone , ” I said .
“Save your packages .
This stuff will go to waste if it’s not eaten tonight .
I didn’t have to offer twice .
Faced with sterile , freeze-dried food that would take rehydrating to be edible and a cast-iron stomach to be palatable , it didn’t take long for the line to form .
I handed out thick slices of ham .
Elsie scooped out large portions of beans and potato salad .
Daniel even chipped in , passing out chunks of fresh bread .
I could have just as easily been passing out magic beans , with Friendly Potion Number 9 stamped on the side .
Elsie accomplished something that evening much stronger and longer lasting than filling empty bellies with good food .
She single-handedly tore down the walls that exist between strangers and erased the strain of meeting people for the first time .
She did it , not with her wit , nor her sharp tongue , but with an afternoon of cooking and baking that provided the first common ground between us .
Even the sudden tension I’d managed to build between myself , Tyler , and his drooping pants vanished quickly .
What began as three well-defined groups occupying their own space , rapidly devolved into something more akin to a welcoming dinner .
Conversation ebbed and flowed , becoming as infectious as the disease we feared .
But everyone seemed so kind-hearted , and so sorrowful , and so sympathetic that I could not but be touched .
I shall never forget the last glimpse which I had of the inn yard and its crowd of picturesque figures , all crossing themselves , as they stood round the wide archway , with its background of rich foliage of oleander and orange trees in green tubs clustered in the centre of the yard .
Then our driver , whose wide linen drawers covered the whole front of the boxseat , -- 'gotza'they call them -- cracked her big whip over her four small horses , which ran abreast , and we set off on our journey .
I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in the beauty of the scene as we drove along , although had I known the language , or rather languages , which my fellow-passengers were speaking , I might not have been able to throw them off so easily .
Before us lay a green sloping land full of forests and woods , with here and there steep hills , crowned with clumps of trees or with farmhouses , the blank gable end to the road .
There was everywhere a bewildering mass of fruit blossom -- apple , plum , pear , cherry .
And as we drove by I could see the green grass under the trees spangled with the fallen petals .
In and out amongst these green hills of what they call here the 'Mittel Land'ran the road , losing itself as it swept round the grassy curve , or was shut out by the straggling ends of pine woods , which here and there ran down the hillsides like tongues of flame .
The road was rugged , but still we seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste .
I could not understand then what the haste meant , but the driver was evidently bent on losing no time in reaching Borgo Prund .
I was told that this road is in summertime excellent , but that it had not yet been put in order after the winter snows .
In this respect it is different from the general run of roads in the Carpathians , for it is an old tradition that they are not to be kept in too good order .
Of old the Hospadars would not repair them , lest the Turk should think that they were preparing to bring in foreign troops , and so hasten the war which was always really at loading point .
Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopes of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves .
Here and there seemed mighty rifts in the mountains , through which , as the sun began to sink , we saw now and again the white gleam of falling water .
One of my companions touched my arm as we swept round the base of a hill and opened up the lofty , snow-covered peak of a mountain , which seemed , as we wound on our serpentine way , to be right before us .
'Look !
Isten szek ! '
-- 'God 's seat ! '
-- and she crossed herself reverently .
As we wound on our endless way , and the sun sank lower and lower behind us , the shadows of the evening began to creep round us .
This was emphasized by the fact that the snowy mountain-top still held the sunset , and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink .
Here and there we passed Cszeks and slovaks , all in picturesque attire , but I noticed that goitre was painfully prevalent .
By the roadside were many crosses , and as we swept by , my companions all crossed themselves .
Here and there was a peasant woman or man kneeling before a shrine , who did not even turn round as we approached , but seemed in the self-surrender of devotion to have neither eyes nor ears for the outer world .
There were many things new to me .
For instance , hay-ricks in the trees , and here and there very beautiful masses of weeping birch , their white stems shining like silver through the delicate green of the leaves .
Now and again we passed a leiter-wagon -- the ordinary peasants 's cart -- with its long , snakelike vertebra , calculated to suit the inequalities of the road .
On this were sure to be seated quite a group of homecoming peasants , the Cszeks with their white , and the Slovaks with their coloured sheepskins , the latter carrying lance-fashion their long staves , with axe at end .
Sometimes the hills were so steep that , despite our driver 's haste , the horses could only go slowly .
I wished to get down and walk up them , as we do at home , but the driver would not hear of it .
'No , no , ' she said .
'You must not walk here .
The dogs are too fierce.’ and then she added , with what she evidently meant for grim pleasantry -- for she looked round to catch the approving smile of the rest—‘Aand you may have enough of such matters before you go to sleep.’ The only stop she would make was a moment 's pause to light her lamps .
When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst the passengers , and they kept speaking to her , one after the other , as though urging her to further speed .
She lashed the horses unmercifully with her long whip , and with wild cries of encouragement urged them on to further exertions .
Then through the darkness I could see a sort of patch of grey light ahead of us , as though there were a cleft in the hills .
The excitement of the passengers grew greater .
The crazy coach rocked on its great leather springs , and swayed like a boat tossed on a stormy sea .
I had to hold on .
The road grew more level , and we appeared to fly along .
Then the mountains seemed to come nearer to us on each side and to frown down upon us .
We were entering on the Borgo Pass .
One by one several of the passengers offered me gifts , which they pressed upon me with an earnestness which would take no denial .
These were certainly of an odd and varied kind , but each was given in simple good faith , with a kindly word , and a blessing , and that same strange mixture of fear-meaning movements which I had seen outside the hotel at Bistritz -- the sign of the cross and the guard against the evil eye .
Then , as we flew along , the driver leaned forward , and on each side the passengers , craning over the edge of the coach , peered eagerly into the darkness .
It was evident that something very exciting was either happening or expected , but though I asked each passenger , no one would give me the slightest explanation .
This state of excitement kept on for some little time .
And at last we saw before us the Pass opening out on the eastern side .
There were dark , rolling clouds overhead , and in the air the heavy , oppressive sense of thunder .
It seemed as though the mountain range had separated two atmospheres , and that now we had got into the thunderous one .
I was now myself looking out for the conveyance which was to take me to the Countess .
Each moment I expected to see the glare of lamps through the blackness , but all was dark .
The only light was the flickering rays of our own lamps , in which the steam from our hard-driven horses rose in a white cloud .
We could see now the sandy road lying white before us , but there was on it no sign of a vehicle .
The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness , which seemed to mock my own disappointment .
I was already thinking what I had best do , when the driver , looking at her watch , said to the others something which I could hardly hear , it was spoken so quietly and in so low a tone , I thought it was 'An hour less than the time.’ Then turning to me , she spoke in German worse than my own .
'There is no carriage here .
The Frau is not expected after all .
She will now come on to Bukovina , and return tomorrow or the next day , better the next day .
'Whilst she was speaking the horses began to neigh and snort and plunge wildly , so that the driver had to hold them up .
Then , amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and a universal crossing of themselves , a caleche , with four horses , drove up behind us , overtook us , and drew up beside the coach .
I could see from the flash of our lamps as the rays fell on them , that the horses were coal-black and splendid animals .
They were driven by a tall woman , with a long brown locks and a great black hat , which seemed to hide her face from us .
I could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright eyes , which seemed red in the lamplight , as she turned to us .
She said to the driver , 'You are early tonight , my friend . '
The woman stammered in reply , 'The English Frau was in a hurry . '
To which the stranger replied , 'That is why , I suppose , you wished her to go on to Bukovina .
You can not deceive me , my friend .
I know too much , and my horses are swift . '
As she spoke she smiled , and the lamplight fell on a hard-looking mouth , with very red lips and sharp-looking teeth , as white as ivory .
One of my companions whispered to another the line from Burger 's 'Lenore ' .
'Denn die Todten reiten Schnell .
' ( 'For the dead travel fast . ' )
The strange driver evidently heard the words , for she looked up with a gleaming smile .
The passenger turned her face away , at the same time putting out her two fingers and crossing herself .
'Give me the Frau 's luggage , ’ said the driver , and with exceeding alacrity my bags were handed out and put in the caleche .
Then I descended from the side of the coach , as the caleche was close alongside , the driver helping me with a hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel .
Her strength must have been prodigious .
Without a word she shook her reins , the horses turned , and we swept into the darkness of the pass .
As I looked back I saw the steam from the horses of the coach by the light of the lamps , and projected against it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves .
Then the driver cracked her whip and called to her horses , and off they swept on their way to Bukovina .
As they sank into the darkness I felt a strange chill , and a lonely feeling come over me .
But a cloak was thrown over my shoulders , and a rug across my knees , and the driver said in excellent German -- 'The night is chill , mein Frau , and my mistress the Countess bade me take all care of you .
There is a flask of slivovitz ( the plum brandy of the country ) underneath the seat , if you should require it . '
I did not take any , but it was a comfort to know it was there all the same .
I felt a little strangely , and not a little frightened .
I think had there been any alternative I should have taken it , instead of prosecuting that unknown night journey .
The carriage went at a hard pace straight along , then we made a complete turn and went along another straight road .
It seemed to me that we were simply going over and over the same ground again , and so I took note of some salient point , and found that this was so .
I would have liked to have asked the driver what this all meant , but I really feared to do so , for I thought that , placed as I was , any protest would have had no effect in case there had been an intention to delay .
By-and-by , however , as I was curious to know how time was passing , I struck a match , and by its flame looked at my watch .
It was within a few minutes of midnight .
This gave me a sort of shock , for I suppose the general superstition about midnight was increased by my recent experiences .
I waited with a sick feeling of suspense .
Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road , a long , agonized wailing , as if from fear .
The sound was taken up by another dog , and then another and another , till , borne on the wind which now sighed softly through the Pass , a wild howling began , which seemed to come from all over the country , as far as the imagination could grasp it through the gloom of the night .
“Contractions ?
She’s not due for another month .
It’s most likely false labor .
Don’t go.” “Sorry , bloke , but she wants me home , so our plan’s taken a bit of a diversion.” “That’s just fantastic.” “Again , I apologize , Ken .
Listen , I’m at the airport right now .
Flight’s getting ready to take off .
I have to go.” “Fine .
Call me when you land .
What’s that , nine hours from now ? ” “I think.” “So I should be done with the inspection by then.” “You’re going ahead with it anyway ? ” “Of course .
I’m not going to miss the opportunity of a lifetime.” “Very well .
Be careful .
And wish me luck.” “Why ? ” “The only flights to London I could get on such short notice land in Gatwick.” Ken snapped his cell phone shut without laughing , wiped sweat from his forehead , and checked his watch .
It was nine o’clock in the morning , and it had to be close to a hundred degrees already .
Steam rose from the adobe buildings lining the dirt road .
There were no adults to be found , but a great many children had gathered , playing stickball and eyeing him with suspicion .
He stood out in this impoverished sea of brown flesh with his lily-white skin , sandy blonde hair , and sweat-covered khaki shorts .
He puffed out his cheeks and checked his watch again .
Raul—the guide hired to bring he and James to the excavation site—was ten minutes late .
The way people seemed to lack any respect for punctuality and the plans of others annoyed Ken more than anything , and that included associates who backed out of once-in-a-lifetime opportunities .
An archeologist by trade and cultural anthropologist by passion , Dr. Ken Trudeau had spent much of the past twenty-five years traversing the globe , hoping to further his understanding of cultures long lost to the rest of the civilized world .
He scoured most every corner of Europe and Asia , and even spent a few years residing among the aboriginal tribes of New Guinea , living as one with them , drinking up their wealth of primal knowledge and treating them not as subjects , but as brothers .
Yet , despite all he’d seen , all he’d experienced , what lay ahead of him now was the culmination of a dream .
The ancient Mayans were Ken’s obsession , and had been for the majority of his forty-seven years .
The sudden disappearance of their culture became the study that intrigued him most .
With their virtually preternatural understanding of astronomy and the passage of time , which far exceeded the erudition of their contemporaries , it seemed unlikely that they would suddenly up and vanish .
What happened ?
Did famine overtake them ?
Disease ?
Did the rivers overrun and flood the land , leaving them no other choice but to scatter and integrate into surrounding cultures ?
To these queries Ken still found himself in the dark , waiting for someone to shine a beacon and draw him forward .
That beacon was news of the excavation .
In an archetypal flash of irony , an underground fissure had been uncovered when the Honduran government blasted through the rainforest in order to construct a new freeway that would lead to a soon-to-be-completed eastern waterway .
After local scientists poked their noses around , it was discovered the chasm led to the interior of an ancient Mayan temple .
It was a priceless piece of history , found during man’s attempt to wipe the past from the face of the earth in the name of urban development .
The popular theory was that the temple had been swallowed by the earth in the aftermath of some great earthquake , but Ken didn’t care about the reasons for its existence .
That it existed at all was all that mattered to him .
It served as the possible answer to his dreams .
He smiled at the thought .
A tan Jeep tore around the corner , almost striking the stickball-playing children and careening into a fruit seller’s cart .
Mangoes and oranges flew through the air , splattering when they hit the ground .
The man behind the wheel of the Jeep wore an expression on his face that reeked of youthful ineptitude .
He waved at Ken with one hand and spun the wheel with the other .
The automobile screeched to a halt curbside , fifteen feet away .
“Hola , doctor , ” Raul slurred when the vehicle stopped rocking .
Ken approached it .
The man’s body odor stunk of stale liquor .
“Where’s the other one ? ” “You’re late , ” Ken snapped , “and it’s only me today.” He threw his bags over the headrest and climbed into the passenger seat .
Raul started to ramble , offering an endless succession of excuses , but Ken stopped him with a wave of his hand .
“No bullshit , let’s just go , ” he said .
“I’m on a schedule here.” * * * The Jeep lurched as the tires struck the roots and vines cluttering the thin layer of dirt that passed for a jungle road .
Sweat covered Ken’s body and mosquitoes persisted in hovering about his head despite the speed at which Raul drove .
He itched all over but didn’t care .
The inherent beauty of the rainforest moved any discomfort to the back of his mind .
It seemed such a difficult proposition for people to live in conditions such as these .
The humidity , the insects , the predators—all these natural dangers forced one to be on top of their game to simply survive .
To Ken this fact brimmed with splendor .
It echoed the heights humans could reach—did reach—before technology caused universal laziness to wash over the globe .
Two hours after the journey began , they entered a clearing .
The vision of the site awoke a tinge of sadness within Ken .
The soothing embrace of nature in its purest form was ripped away , revealing the ugly beginnings of humanity’s pursuit of uniformity .
Rubble from the excavation had been carelessly placed in random piles , creating a rocky maze so thin in some places that stone tore into the Jeep on both sides when they passed through .
They drove across the winding stretch of flattened grass that weaved through the debris and stopped at what looked like a giant mouth cut into the landscape .
Ken stepped out , pulled his travel case from the back , and removed from it his harness , a coil of thick cable as wide as his torso , as well as his tool belt .
He took a clasp and fastened it to the Jeep’s tow hitch .
Then he tossed the cord over the edge of the pit , and a second or so later there came a dull thud .
He whistled between his teeth .
Judging by how long it took to reach the bottom , it had to be at least seventy feet deep .
A cold , nervous sweat dribbled down his neck as he fastened the tool belt around his waist , wiggled into the harness , locked its catch around the line , and put on his gloves .
He crawled to the lip and peered over .
“Bugger , that’s deep , ” he whispered .
Then , his resolve returning , he turned to Raul and said , “Wait for me up here.” While bracing his feet on the rim of the crater , he pulled the cable taut , took a deep breath , and plunged into the void .
A rush of cold , wet air greeted him .
His arms ached as he lowered himself down one hand at a time ; his leg muscles stiffened from squeezing his feet against the rope .
Had James been there he would have used the second support lead , which he should have done anyway , just in case .
Now , if he fell , there’d be nothing to break his fall but the ground below .
He shivered and tried to force thoughts of his carelessness to the back of his mind , which proved a simple task seeing as his anticipation bubbled over any other invading emotion like foam at the crest of an ocean wave .
Still farther he descended .
No light penetrated the opening up above , leaving him in the black .
Barbs scraped his bare elbows when he swung too close to the cracked tunnel walls .
He considered for a moment how the walls themselves seemed much too round , the plunge much too straight , to be the happenstance creation of wayward dynamite .
He thought it possible the channel had been created , and then pushed that thought to the storage space in the deep recesses of his brain .
There will be no conjecture here , he thought .
There is only observation .
Gather the data .
The time for assumptions and analysis comes later .
After what seemed like much too long a time , he felt a breeze .
The mugginess surrounding him disappeared—the revealing sign of the end of the channel .
Amazingly , it took just as long for his toes to brush the ground as it had to enter the chamber from the tunnel .
He rolled his feet flat from ball to heel , steadying himself as if he’d spent the last year in zero gravity .
He disengaged clamp from cable , took off his gloves , and felt for the line’s end .
There it was , right at his fingertips , which meant the depth of this chasm was very close to the line’s full hundred feet .
A whistle escaped his lips , pierced the silence around him , and bounced back two fold .
He grabbed the flashlight from its place in his belt and clicked it on .
A blazing cone of yellow light cut a streak through the darkness .
Ken looked around in amazement , trying to take in each thing the narrow beam revealed .
He stood in the middle of a huge , square room—fifty or so feet from wall to wall , by his best estimation .
Hieroglyphs covered those walls for as far up as he could see .
Six crudely built wooden tables stood against the wall he faced .
He marched slowly toward one of them .
And yet some of them appear to be thriving communities complete with every convenience and luxury one would expect to find in the city or suburbs .
Such towns have been known to generate income from a yearly flow of tourists .
Or they can be occupied by individuals such as artists , writers or people who travel much in their jobs .
This is the sort of town Mapleview is .
Founded in the early 1800s , it offers a place for people to get away from it all and finally live in an area that values peace , quiet and communion with nature .
But there 's an unknown , dark side to that wonderful town where most people would only dream of living .
Some attribute it to a mysterious sentience that blankets the town in a wilderness deep in unknown history .
Some explain that the legendary Trivelli house continues to curse the area since the well known tragedy that took place in the 1830s .
Other residents adopt a more sensible theory and state that many of the people in that town are simply crazy .
There 's a private section of forest near the Hidden Lake Forest Preserve in Mapleview that has been owned by the Trivelli family since 1832 .
One must travel uphill on a half-block driveway to get to the historical house .
The house overlooks the actual lake that is in Hidden Lake Forest Preserve , and has become an icon to residents of Mapleview who gaze up to the old house on the hill .
As mentioned before , the house has a terrible legend that really seems to be fed by those who continue to tell the story .
Although the story in this book is focused on the time when Mary owned the Trivelli house , it is probably best to give a very , brief account of the last person’s experiences who resided there , just to understand what Mary had walked into .
It was two years before the sale of the legendary , historic house of Mapleview , and two years before the series of mysterious disappearances .
Terri was the last tenant of Loraine Trivelli .
Loraine inherited the historic house that had been passed down for generations .
Terri drove on a Saturday morning through the heavily forested highways with nothing but miles of wilderness and seclusion to surround her .
Finally reaching Mapleview Road , she soon found the oversized , historic house and ascended the half-block driveway where Loraine Trivelli had greeted her .
Loraine was a friendly , older woman ; perhaps in her early 60s with an air of grace and of following all things that were proper .
She led Terri into the home and provided a tour of the place which most people only dream of .
“It’s a house that was built in the 1830s and has been passed down through the generations .
As you can see it’s fully furnished , many of the pieces antiques .
If you decide to stay , I only ask that you make no changes to the decorating and structure as this is a historic landmark to the town of Mapleview.” It was a beautiful home in a quiet town , and just the place for Terri to rediscover her talent for art .
How could she turn down such a place ?
“So what brings you to Mapleview , if you don’t mind me asking ? ” Loraine was always curious of her potential tenants .
“I’m an artist , just looking for a quiet place and some inspiration.” Peace and quiet was something that Terri most certainly needed , considering the stress and near nervous breakdown experienced at the company just outside of Chicago that specialized in biomedical manufacturing .
The wirey-thin , middle-aged blonde who served as a punching bag to management and the FDA alike could no longer take the damage .
Threats of being fired because of production mishaps , and threats of heavy fines from the FDA inspectors were squeezing the very life out of her .
There was no reason to stay as she had other talents and plenty of finances saved up .
Many people left the company under similar circumstances .
It was just Terri’s turn .
“Oh , I get plenty of artists and writers who stay here for a year or more so they can complete a work.” It seemed to Loraine that her historic house was the ideal place for people like Terri to live , offering peace and quiet in the communion of nature .
But then Terri hinted towards a question , hoping not to offend Loraine .
“It’s so nice here and peaceful .
I couldn’t imagine anyone wanting to leave after a year or so.” Loraine wasn’t going to take Terri’s curiosity personal .
Although she desired to keep renters for longer periods , the legend and stigmatism of the house eventually pushed tenants away .
She was lucky to have a renter like Terri who needed a quiet place to stay .
Loraine very calmly speculated , “Oh , I suppose people want to move on .
Not much happens here in Mapleview .
I’m sure after a couple of years ; you might want a new environment for inspiration as well.” Again , the historic house was beautiful and sat in a quiet town .
It was just the place for Terri to rediscover her talent for art .
How could she turn down such a place ?
The rental agreement was filled out that very day .
*** Certainly not expecting inspiration to immediately hit her , Terri spent some time getting acquainted with the historic house and the small , charming town of Mapleview .
As a gentle reminder to creativity 's subconscious , Terri did set up her oil canvass in the living room , just in front of the old piano with antique vase seated on top .
The vase was certainly in need of fresh flowers , and her oil canvass was in need of inspiration .
The Trivelli house overlooks the Hidden Lake Forest Preserve and backs into a narrow , wooded path that descends to the bottom of the forest .
Returning from her first nature hike one morning , Terri took sight of the historic house from a distance and realized that it had been built on throughout the 150 years or more since its original construction .
She could see the very center of the building which revealed the possible appearance of the home as it would have looked in the 1830s .
That was the moment of initial inspiration .
The canvass was brought outside , some distance from the house , and the brush strokes began to take form .
It was an interesting painting as seen on the cover of this book .
The exclusive colors were blue and light-gray , ignoring the lush greens and browns of the forest world .
Terri was unable to create a clear , discernable image of the house and attributed the stymie to the fact that she was painting the building as it looked 150 or more years ago .
The end product was eerie , dark-toned and suggested a haunted environment .
Maybe the inspiration was a bad idea .
Terri decided to bring the painting inside and work on it after dinner that night .
But the house , itself , seemed to welcome the painting .
It almost complimented Terri and congratulated her on the fine work !
Terri became obsessed with the imagined presence that adored her artwork .
It was necessary to personify the presence that was drawn as tall and dark , wearing a suit and seated at the piano bench .
Just like the painting of the house , his face was made barely discernable ; but there were subtle characteristics of being handsome .
One could almost consider Terri 's art as a medium that attempted to understand the paranormal presence in the home .
All paintings created after the attempted personification became increasingly horrific ; which illustrated various rooms with walls to include bodies trapped behind them , along with ghostly people who pounded to escape .
Terri suffered from a lack of sleep , lost her appetite and remained obsessed with the horrific paintings .
The final two were much too disturbing to mention ; but it can be said that they reflected her pain and loss of life that had been brought on by the legendary , historic house .
With her realization , she escaped and never returned to the town of Mapleview .
As for Loraine Trivelli , it was just one of many tenants lost .
For years she rented the house out to people , needing a quiet place to do their art or write their novels .
These were usually people from out of state and unaware of the terrible legend of the Trivelli house .
After some time , these renters would become outraged that they rented a stigmatized property and terminated their rental agreement with Loraine .
Upon inheriting the home to herself at the death of her father , Loraine thought that using the house as a pricey rental property would be an excellent source of income .
But since the renters were far and few between , the house was more of a burden , so she decided to sell .
*** Loraine 's niece , Mary , heard word of her aunt’s plan to sell and immediately offered to purchase before it went on the market .
She cashed in on some investments and paid for the house in full , as she did not want to lose the home she always wanted since a little girl .
This , of course , disappointed the local Realtors who had already been talking to Loraine .
Mary did n't care about the legend of the house .
It was a beautiful , historic house and the perfect place to enjoy her soon-to-be husband and raise a family .
Her wedding was two months away and she and her fiancé , Daren , decided that taking up residence in Mapleview would be a great idea .
Daren traveled the country ; demonstrating innovative , new medical equipment and could set up residence anywhere .
His job only required quick access to the airport .
Mary planned on getting her old job back at the flower shop in town .
`` Are you sure you 're going to be happy here ? ''
Loraine and her niece , Mary , came back to the Trivelli house after their closing in town .
Mary now had full-ownership , and Loraine accompanied her niece back to her new home just to make sure she was happy .
The house was fully furnished with beautiful , antique furniture that had been accumulated in the Trivelli family for over 150 years .
It was a sweet deal for Mary ; simply buy the house , settle in and get married .
`` Why would n't I be happy here ?
This has been my house ever since I could remember .
I 've always wanted this house . ''
`` Well , it 's stigmatized and might have some sort of curse .
I 'm actually glad to get it off my hands . ''
`` It 's a legend !
And really it should n't be a legend .
It was just a tragic accident ! ''
For years , Mary believed her aunt had a neurotic obsession with the supposed curse of what was now Mary 's beautiful home .
And the last thing she wanted to hear on the day of the closing was that her dream home had such a stigmatism .
But Loraine continued , feeling she needed to set her niece straight of the supposed legend of the Trivelli House .
`` Just a legend ?
“They made the friggin’ thing and gave their own people the antidote .
That’s how.” The girl rolled her eyes .
“That’s just crazy .
No government would do that .
It would be stupid to create a disease capable of evolving , ” she retorted .
Otherwise all the vaccines in the world wouldn’t do them any good .
By the way , an antidote is for poison .
Vaccine is for disease.” The man looked barely able to contain his anorexic anger .
“You’re calling me crazy ?
How much clearer does it have to be ?
They’re not dying .
If they didn’t do it , who did ? ” Joshua leaned over to look at his friend , still wiping at the eye that had borne the brunt of the ponytail assault .
“That’s all we need -- a war on top of a pandemic.” Elsie shook her head .
“It ain’t the Chinese.” Devon looked hard at her .
“How do you know ? ” She frowned .
“Settle down , boy .
They may be able to make a disease , but not little demon critters like Hill William seen ?
No , it’s all tied together somehow.” He wanted to argue .
I didn’t blame him .
Nothing about The Fever seemed natural .
Riding on top of the peculiar list were two items that seemed at odds with each other .
Diseases that killed rapidly usually burned themselves out in a relatively short period of time .
Quarantine measures had proven extremely successful at stamping out such infections using logic that worked for firefighters and doctors alike .
The virus needed a constant supply of new hosts .
Break the chain of infection and it died just like a wildfire severed from its source of fuel .
Diseases that killed slower had often proved more successful in the wild .
Ebola and AIDS highlighted the difference perfectly .
The first killed rapidly .
The second could take years or even decades .
Both used blood-borne avenues of transmission .
The reason one ran rampant across the world while the other hadn’t could be directly attributed to the speed at which they killed .
Ebola needed new a victim within days .
AIDS could lie in wait for years until it found a new host .
The travel ban acted like a quarantine .
The terrifying rise in infection rates and mortalities didn’t concern me as much as the disease suddenly appearing in isolated areas where the odds of exposure should have been nil in the first place .
The situation pointed to transmission vectors we didn’t understand .
Add to that , a virus capable of mutating at will and The Fever seemed too perfect .
Everything about it felt manufactured , not by nature , but by men who wanted a weapon .
“Well , I haven’t seen any demons , ” Devon finally muttered .
“I’m not the only one .
Something out there is eating people , ” I interjected .
Denise and Devon both had stubborn looks on their faces .
I didn’t need a confrontation over something we couldn’t control .
“Every broadcast has a weird story .
Yesterday , people were talking about monsters in Washington .
Tonight , the bogeymen were ten feet tall and green.” Jessie , the dark-haired girl who rarely spoke at the gatherings , ventured hesitantly , “The news did say that those types of reports were from fever-induced hallucinations.” “I don’t have a fever .
I could go along with that diagnosis if I hadn’t aged a year last night while trying to kill my own monster , ” I said pointedly .
“The question I have isn’t if they exist , but how are we going to keep them away ? ” Silence hung in the room .
Exasperation swept over me at the blank looks the question had drawn .
I waved a hand in a vague semi-circle .
“On top of that , we have a ton of work to do here if we’re going to survive .
We’re sleeping on the floor and eating out of coolers , for Christ’s sake.” Joshua stroked his beard , his face thoughtful .
“I don’t want to be a spoilsport , ” he began and looked around at the others , “but , if I’m going to die in a week , I don’t care to spend it working on something I’ll never use.” “I was just thinking that myself , ” Kelly sighed .
“I mean , why bother ? ” Devon had never taken his seat after leaping up to level his accusation against China .
He grinned sardonically .
“Maybe the potheads down the beach have the right idea .
Just lay back and let it come because it’s going to anyway.” I wanted to argue with him , but couldn’t .
I’d come to the island with the same purpose in mind .
While the rest of the world built barricades and hunkered down in their houses , I’d set my sights on going out with my feet propped up on the stern , a cold drink in one hand and a fishing pole in the other .
I hadn’t expected the end to be sudden or peaceful .
At the same time , I hadn’t wanted to spend the last days scrabbling for survival when the outlook held less hope than winning the next lottery .
Pushing the issue with Devon would be like arguing with myself when I didn’t fully understand the reasons my outlook had changed .
I sat as quiet as the rest , struggling with my own inner demons and trying to figure out why the need to survive seemed more urgent and pressing than ever .
Tyler resolved that problem a few seconds later .
“I don’t know about the rest of you , ” he said from the corner , “but I didn’t come here to be eaten .
I’m going to fight the bastards.” The instant the words left his mouth , understanding dawned like a new sunrise .
Before I could put thought to words , Elsie nailed the difference succinctly .
“Count me in on that , ” she said in a matter-of-fact tone .
“I can’t stop the disease .
But ain’t nothin’ gon na be chewin’ on my innards if I can help it.” The thought brought back her earlier comment about the night watch .
“Elsie thinks we need to bring the guard inside .
I agree with her .
Putting two people outside with our only firearm doesn’t make a whole lot of sense , so starting tonight , guard duty is right here.” Finally , something generated at least movement .
Nods worked their way through the group .
I shot a glance at the old woman .
“Are the other rooms ready ? ” She shook her head .
“Not yet .
Kate and Jessie worked hard on them today , but they need muscle .
Maybe tomorrow a couple of the men will help and we’ll get it squared away.” “Then we’ll just sleep in here with the guards .
Tomorrow morning after breakfast , we’ll figure out how to make this place more secure.” I saw a lot of nods when I looked around the room .
“Then let’s get set up for the night .
I don’t want anyone sleeping in the open space in front of the windows .
Let’s leave the watch a clear field of fire.” Nervous looks swept around the table that time .
I turned to Elsie .
“I’d like to see the lists you were working on this morning.” She climbed to her feet and headed toward the kitchen .
Denise waved a hand .
“What are we going to do about baths ?
I could really use one.” Another chorus of nodding agreement erupted .
“Me too , ” Jessie said emphatically .
I hesitated .
The thought of a warm bath called to me as much as the rest .
The question weighing on my mind was water .
Eleven baths a night would eat through the drinking water in the cistern quickly .
Even so , the thought of lying in my own pool of sticky sweat all night had less appeal at the moment than being thirsty .
Bathing wasn’t an option either .
Sooner or later we had to do deal with the water problems and that moment seemed as good as any .
“Here’s the deal , ” I said with a sigh .
“We have running water in the bathroom and a tub .
It’s cold though .
If you want hot water , you’ll have to heat it on the cook stove in the kitchen.” I let the statement hang there for a moment and then followed up with the downside .
Still , I don’t want to take any chances with Rolo .
When one of the younger skateboarders , a boy of about twelve with a mohawk , looks up and sees me , I take off before he can point me out to him .
It’s even darker now .
The youth center is still four blocks away .
I walk faster , keeping my hands in my pockets .
As I pass the apartment building on the corner of Albermarle and Mott I hear what sounds like a kid screaming .
The voice comes from one of the first floor windows .
I stop and listen and hear a boy shout “What did I do ?
What did I do ? ” I move closer and stand right under the window and hear another scream , followed by a loud crash .
Then nothing .
I wait , but there are no more sounds of violence .
I look around , hoping to spot an adult nearby who heard the same incriminating sounds that I did .
But the only other people I see are two older teens -- a long-haired boy and a short-haired girl walking about half a block ahead of me .
I briefly consider calling Nine-One-One on my cell , but when the silence continues I decide against it .
For all I know it could have been a TV show or a DVD someone was watching .
I’m pretty sure it wasn’t , to be honest , but I don’t even know the number of the apartment , and now that whatever happened -- or didn’t happen -- is over , I don’t see the point of calling the police .
They probably won’t be able to do anything anyway .
Ignoring the voice of my conscience , I continue down the street .
God I hope Jobie didn’t get so pissed off about detention that he decided to go straight home .
Not that that’s likely : as a rule he spends as little time at home as possible He told me so himself .
Jobie’s father is MIA and his mother is a major alcoholic .
He hates having to be the adult and look after his mom , so he spends as much time in the youth center or on the street as possible .
I would do the same if I could .
He and I are both misfits , unpopular at school and at home .
I like to think of him as a friend , but I don’t know if he really cares enough about me to be called a friend .
I don’t think he really cares much about anyone .
Still , he’s one of the few people I like to talk to -- that is , when he’s in a talkative mood .
He’s the one who told me that I have the same first name as the girlfriend of the famous nineteen fifties serial killer Charles Starkweather .
The boy and girl walking ahead of me start laughing about something .
The boy reaches out and takes the girl’s hand .
As soon as he does a car screeches to a halt alongside them and a tall bald man gets out .
Despite the cold he’s dressed only in blue denim pants , a blue flannel shirt , and black leather cowboy boots .
In his right hand he holds a tire iron .
Leaving the door of his car open , he runs up to the two teens .
The girl apparently knows the man , because even though she looks scared she makes no attempt to run .
I hear her cry “Daddy ! ” , and then the man raises his tire iron and tries to bash her over the head with it .
The girl reacts instinctively , raising both her hands to ward off the blow .
As she does the boy steps between them , reaches up and grabs the man’s arm .
The two of them wrestle for the tire iron .
Frozen with fear , the girl just stands there screaming “Om my God ! ” over and over .
“Mr .
Hughes !
What the hell ?
! ” the boy shouts .
Finally the girl snaps out of her fear-induced paralysis .
She throws her arms around the man’s waist and tries to pull him away from the boy , but the man is too big for her to move .
I look around to see if there are any other witnesses to this mayhem .
The only other people on the street besides me and the three combatants are an elderly man with a cane and a thirtyish woman .
The elderly man watches the fight from the other side of the street .
The woman , walking very briskly , completely ignores the homicidal man and his two intended victims even though they’re right in her path .
She walks around them without even turning her head .
As she draws closer I see that she has an intense , almost crazed look on her face .
I back up several feet to give her a wide berth , but my precaution turns out to be unnecessary .
The woman ignores me too and just keeps walking , as if she’s on a life and death mission .
Well I’m not on a mission , at least not a life and death one , so I reach for my cell phone .
But before I can dial Nine-One-One I hear a familiar voice call out my name .
“Caril !
Caril ! ” I turn and see my brother Taylor and sister Lynda running towards me .
Lynda cries and stumbles as Taylor grasps her tightly by one wrist , pulling her along with him .
There is blood smeared on the lower half of his face and his nose is bleeding .
I put my phone away .
“What the hell happened to you ? ” I ask Taylor when they stop in front of me , but he’s too out of breath to answer .
Gasping , he leans forward with both hands on his knees and struggles to catch his breath .
Lynda does the same .
A patrol car driven by a single male cop speeds down the street with its turret lights and sirens on , but it passes the still fighting bald man and long-haired boy without stopping .
Two cars follow right behind it , travelling at the same high rate of speed .
Lynda recovers her breath enough to straighten up and throw her arms around me , a weird thing for her to do since she’s never been a huggy kind of kid , even on the rare previous occasions when she’s cried .
What the hell is going on ?
“Taylor what happened to you ? ” I repeat .
“Why’s your nose bleeding ? ” Behind me the teen girl screams again .
I glance over my shoulder and see the man bring the tire iron down on the long-haired boy’s head so hard that I can actually see the metal sink into his scalp .
Blood sprays up and the boy goes down like a marionette with it’s strings cut .
The man hits him again .
And again .
I stare transfixed until I hear Taylor’s voice again .
“Caril , Mom and Dad tried to kill Marky ! ” “What ? ” “Mom and Dad tried to kill Marky ! ” .
CHAPTER TWO Taylor 's words , and the obvious fact that something terrible is happening , finally register in my mind when the teen girl runs past us screaming .
Her father the bald man chases after her , waving the bloody tire iron over his head the same way the Keystone Cops used to wave their nightsticks in those ancient silent movies .
`` Come back here you little bitch ! ''
he bellows .
I push Lynda back and grab her by the wrist the same way Taylor did .
`` Come on ! ''
I shout .
I lead my two younger siblings down the block to an alley between an apartment building and a pet store .
The three of us duck behind a foul smelling metal dumpster .
`` Okay , '' I whisper to Taylor .
`` Tell me what happened . ''
Taylor pauses again to catch his breath and compose himself .
Despite his bloody nose he does n't seem to be in danger of crying .
Lynda , on the other hand , is still sobbing .
`` Calm down Lynda , '' I tell her .
Lynda sits on the filthy ground and covers her face with her hands .
`` Well Taylor ? ''
Taylor takes a deep breath , lets it out .
`` Lynda and I were having a snack in the kitchen .
Mom made Marky some hot tea for his sore throat and took it upstairs to him .
All of a sudden I heard Mom yelling .
I could n't make out what she was saying -- I thought maybe she spilled the tea and was cursing or something .
Then I heard Marky shout 'Get off me !
What the hell 's the matter with you ? '
In this one he could see the last doors on the right opened onto the now widened tunnel .
He rushed towards it , still hearing the screams .
Where’s the driver ?
he wondered as he left the tube but could see no one .
‘AAAARRRGH !
AAAARRRGH ! ’ The screams beckoned him on , and he found himself in the dark shell of what seemed like some kind of disused station .
But there were no tiles on the walls ; only concrete .
He could see on the right the partitioned , lit , area , which had blocked his way .
But the screams were coming from the left .
In this part of the tunnel there was hardly any light and it was cold and a little windy .
His heart was beating very fast ; his body full of adrenalin .
He continued to run towards the screams .
He was so focused on them that he only half noticed that the tube was leaving alongside him .
He briefly hesitated , not knowing whether he should try to stop the tube to get help or carry on .
He was still in shock .
What in the hell was going on ?
he wondered .
But the screams continued , leaving him with no choice but to follow them , away from the tube .
The floor of the station had a lot of stones and rubble on it and he nearly fell over in his disorientated state when it went down a little to another level .
Up ahead to his right the screams were coming from an entrance to a passageway , which he could make out from the disappearing light of the departing tube .
He approached the passageway with caution , looked through it , and saw that it led to another tunnel , running alongside the one he was in .
Visibility was now quite poor .
The screams still continued from the right .
He entered the passageway and rushed towards them but was more careful now that he was fully awake , more aware of the possible danger .
As he got to the end , Tom’s pace slowed .
His adrenalin was still high but his instincts told him to be careful .
In the background he could hear the slightly squeaky whine common to all tube stations and could feel the wind from the tunnel in front .
He also noticed that the screams had stopped .
At the end of the passageway , Tom carefully peered around its corner on the right .
It was indeed another tube tunnel with tracks , like the one he had come from .
This tunnel was also quite dark but further on there was some light coming out of another passageway on the right .
Tom saw some figures now moving into this light .
His heart froze with fear as they became clearer .
He pulled back his head a little more into the passageway .
He could not believe what he was seeing .
Chapter Three In the lit part of the tunnel , Tom could now see the source of the screams .
There were about five very strange-looking humans ( ? )
of both sexes carrying the body of a teenage girl further into the tube tunnel .
They were quite short and skinny and had funny-shaped heads and bow legs with little but long wispy hair .
They were filthy and dressed in sack-like clothes .
Their eyes were quite big and they were very pale .
They moved passed the lit area and disappeared down the tunnel away from Tom .
He did not move ; he could not : he was too scared .
Tom was no coward and for an eighteen year old he was quite big being just over six-feet-tall with a medium-yet strong build .
But he was in shock at what he was seeing .
One part of him refused to believe what was happening : it was too incredible ; surely he was dreaming .
This was the 21st century yet he was looking at some creatures out of a horror story .
But another part of him could not deny the reality of it .
He felt very frustrated and ashamed of his fear and did not know what to do .
The creatures though smaller than he were wild and evil-looking and greater in number .
He also instinctively realised they were capable killers .
But he must do something to help the girl .
Eventually , after what seemed like a long time , he gathered himself together and found some courage .
He forced himself to move into the tunnel .
He carefully made his way to the source of the lit area , a small stairway with railings and a green emergency exit sign with an arrow above it .
He quickly looked through its entrance , which led to some wide stairs going up , typical of a tube station , to the right .
But straight ahead , past these , He could see another green emergency sign pointing to the left on some railings .
He could not sense any danger from this passageway and moved further down the tunnel , in the direction of the creatures .
He was trying his best not to make any noise but there was a lot of rubble on the floor of the tunnel and he knew that if ‘they’ were listening they would probably hear him .
He put this thought out of his head , as he tried to control his fear ; he had to help the girl .
He reached the mouth of the now narrow tube tunnel on his left , which was like an arch in the bottom left of the bigger arch of the ‘station platform area’ .
He was very scared but poked his head into it .
But there was nothing to be seen : it was just too dark .
He could , however , hear some noises up ahead about twenty metres away .
The creatures had seemingly stopped and were hustled together doing something .
He strained his head closer but still could not see anything ; nor could he hear anything any longer .
He felt that he had to follow them into the tunnel but he was scared about a possible tube coming ; for he knew there would be no space to hide if one came .
He looked at his watch : it was just past 12.17 a.m .
He knew that he had been on the last tube going northbound but was not sure about the last southbound tube .
He realised he had not heard any tubes since he had first heard the girl’s screams on this tube but was still not sure .
He cursed himself for his indecision and forced himself to move ; he knew he had to do something to save the girl .
As he was about to enter the tunnel , however , he again heard something ahead .
There was something moving .
He stared down the tunnel but again could see nothing in the darkness ; he could only feel a cool wind on his face .
But the noises were getting closer .
Then he suddenly realised what they were : the creatures were returning and could probably see his silhouette from the light behind him !
He froze with fear again .
He did not want to move and a part of him was almost happy to wait and see what happened .
Tom , you must move !
You must get the hell away from here , he urgently demanded of himself .
He finally forced himself to do so , turned around , and began to run in the direction of the emergency exit .
‘STAYS THERE !
STAYS THERE ! ’ he heard from behind him in the tunnel in loud , rough , guttural shouts .
This increased his fear : he had not realised the creatures could speak .
It also made him go faster : he did not want to be caught .
He reached the lit stair area with the emergency exit sign .
The creatures were now quite near to him , well out of the tunnel .
He felt his heart beating stronger .
He moved up the small stairway and passed the other wide stairs on his right , which were completely dark .
He turned left at the emergency exit sign on the railings in front of him .
He then saw another green arrowed sign pointing down on some metal railings of some kind of bricked-off room .
He went down the concrete stairs of these , around some concreted area , and then up some more stairs at the other end .
He then continued into some other narrow passageway , before he reached a brick wall with an opening on the left .
This led to some other wide tube station stairs , which like the ‘platform areas’ had no tiles on their walls .
He saw another arrowed sign pointing up on the right-hand one of these .
‘COMES BACK !
COMES BACK !
WE HELPS YOU , BOY ! ’ Tom gulped with fear when he heard this , as he began to run up the stairs ; he instinctively realised that he did not want any of the ‘help’ they would give him , but knew they were going to catch him .
He was running as fast as he could , a little tired and out of breath but not wanting to be caught and then who knew what .
He could hear the creatures coming quickly behind him .
'Yes .
Wolves ? '
'Yeah -- anyhow , I reckon so .
Queer .
Damn queer !
They ai n't been any loafers around these parts for ten years , till we heard 'em jest after the last blizzard . '
( 'Loafer'appeared to be a local corruption of the Spanish word lobo applied to the gray prairie wolf , which is much larger than the coyote , and was a dreaded enemy of the rancher in the Southwest until its practical extermination . )
'Seems to be a reg'lar pack of the critters rovin ' the range , ' Connell went on .
'They 've killed quite a few cattle in the last few weeks , and -- 'she paused , lowering her voice , 'and five people ! '
'The wolves have killed people ! '
I exclaimed .
'Yeah , ' she said slowly .
'Josh Wells and her hand were took two weeks ago , come Friday , while they was out ridin ' the range .
And the Simms ' are gone .
The old woman and her man and little Dolly .
Took right out of the cow-pen , I reckon , while they was milkin ' .
It ai n't two mile out of town to their place .
Rufe Smith was out that way to see 'em Sunday .
Cattle dead in the pen , and the smashed milk buckets lying in a drift of snow under the shed .
And not a sign of Simms and her family ! '
'I never heard of wolves taking people that way ! '
I was incredulous .
Connell shifted her wad of tobacco again , and whispered , 'I did n't neither .
But , Miss , these here ai n't ordinary wolves ! '
'What do you mean ? '
I demanded .
'Wall , after the Simms ' was took , we got up a sort of posse , and went out to hunt the critters .
We did n't find no wolves .
But we did find tracks in the snow .
The wolves is plumb gone in the daytime !
'Tracks in the snow , ' she repeated slowly , as if her mind were dwelling dazedly upon some remembered horror .
'Miss , them wolf tracks was too tarnation far apart to be made by any ordinary beast .
The critters must 'a ' been jumpin ' thirty feet !
'And they war n't all wolf tracks , neither .
Miss , part was wolf tracks .
And part was tracks of bare human feet ! '
* * * * With that , Connell fell silent , staring at me strangely , with a queer look of utter terror in her eyes .
I was staggered .
There was , of course , some element of incredulity in my feelings .
But the agent did not look at all like the woman who has just perpetrated a successful wild story , for there was genuine horror in her eyes .
And I recalled that I had fancied human tones in the strange , distant howling I had heard .
There was no good reason to believe that I had merely encountered a local superstition .
Widespread as the legends of lycanthropy may be , I have yet to hear a whispered tale of werewolves related by a West Texan .
And the agent 's story had been too definite and concrete for me to imagine it an idle fabrication or an ungrounded fear .
'The message from my mothers was very urgent , ' I told Connell presently .
'I must get out to the ranch to-night .
If the woman you mentioned wo n't take me , I 'll hire a horse and ride . '
'Judson is a damn fool if she 'll git out to-night where them wolves is ! '
the agent said with conviction .
'But there 's nothing to keep ye from askin ' her to go .
I reckon she ai n't gone to bed yet .
She lives in the white house , jest around the corner behind Brice 's store . '
She stepped out upon the platform behind me to point the way .
And as soon as the door was opened , we heard again that rhythmic , deep , far-off ululation , that weirdly mournful howling , from far across the moonlit plain of snow .
I could not repress a shudder .
And Connell , after pointing out to me Sam Judson 's house , among the straggling few that constituted the village of Hebron , got very hastily back inside the depot , and shut the door behind her .
CHAPTER II THE PACK THAT RAN BY MOONLIGHT Sam Judson owned and cultivated a farm nearly a mile from Hebron , but had moved her house into the village so that her husband could keep the post-office .
I hurried toward her house , through the icy streets , very glad that Hebron was able to afford the luxury of electric lights .
The distant howling of the wolf-pack filled me with a vague and inexplicable dread .
But it did not diminish my determination to reach my mother 's ranch as soon as possible , to solve the riddle of the strange and alarming telegram she had sent me .
Judson came to the door when I knocked .
She was a heavy woman , clad in faded , patched blue overalls , and brown flannel shirt .
Her head was almost completely bald , and her naked scalp was tanned until it resembled brown leather .
Her wide face was covered with a several weeks ' growth of black locks .
Nervously , fearfully , she scanned my face .
She led me to the kitchen , in the rear of the house -- a small , dingy room , the walls covered with an untidy array of pots and pans .
The cook stove was hot ; she had , from appearances , been sitting with her feet in the oven , reading a newspaper , which now lay on the floor .
She had me sit down , and , when I took the creaking chair , I told her my name .
She said that she knew my mother , Dr. McLaurin , who got her mail at the post-office which was in the front room .
But it had been three weeks , she said , since anyone had been to town from the ranch .
Perhaps because the snow made traveling difficult , she said .
There were five persons now staying out there , she told me .
My mother and Dr. Jetton , her son , Steele , and two hired mechanics from Amarillo .
I told her about the telegram , which I had received three days before .
And she suggested that my mother , if she had sent it , might have come to town at night , and mailed it to the telegraph office with the money necessary to send it .
But she thought it strange that she had not spoken to anyone , or been seen .
Then I told Judson that I wanted her to drive me out to the ranch , at once .
At the request her manner changed ; she seemed frightened !
'No hurry about starting to-night , is there , Ms .
McLaurin ? '
she asked .
'We can put you up in the spare room , and I 'll take ye over in the wagon to-morrow .
It 's a long drive to make at night . '
* * * * I 'm very anxious to get there , ' I said .
'I 'm worried about my mother .
Something was wrong when she telegraphed .
Very much wrong .
I 'll pay you enough to make it worth while . '
'It ai n't the money , ' she told me .
'I 'd be glad to do it for a daughter of Doc McLaurin 's .
But I reckon you heard -- the wolves ? '
'Yes , I heard them .
And Connell , at the station , told me something about them .
They 've been hunting women ? '
'Yes . '
For a little time Judson was silent , staring at me with strange eyes from her hairy face .
Then she said , 'And that ai n't all .
Some of us seen the tracks .
And they 's women runnin ' with 'em ! '
'But I must get out to see my mother , ' I insisted .
It shouted once more , and then a third time .
This Voice was both a foreigner and native to me .
I knew its’ sound , but had no familiarity with its pitch .
I could feel the pressure of its weight upon my head as I tried to protect myself from its sharp tones .
Like knives , it pierced into my flesh , cutting away at my exterior while trying to reach my mind .
I kept up my protective posture until , like that cresting wave , the Voice died away abruptly .
The thundering Chords of the stage reverberated loudly , and I slowly , with great care and caution , opened my eyes to the world around me .
When my pupils focused , it was as if my vision had been heightened .
I stared not at the greater picture of the stage and the orchestra , but at minute details of hair molecules and pumping veins , or twitching fingers and flaring nostrils .
I could see the performers as if I were standing before them , even on the stage with them !
I focused on the veins , on the surging , pulsating veins that carried their life-source through their person .
Each was a living being because of the liquid gushing through the heart and circulating through the avenues of their ligaments .
Life , blessed of all existence , nay the very ground of all that is , rushed with a freedom that bespoke of vivacity .
Everything around me was enlarged , pressing into my field of view .
I tried closing my eyes and opening them again , but my enhanced vision would not cease .
I rubbed them , but still I focused on the smallest of items , and deep in the background , I heard the Voice speaking softly and soothingly , detailing the plan which had only recently appeared in my mind .
My hearing , once attuned to the musical notes of the assembly , redirected its attention to the faintest of noises ; I heard heartbeats , pulsing veins and heaving lungs .
These sounds bellowed loudly as I stared , in a kind of stupor , at all that was transpiring .
The crowd stood to cheer , and the images and noise shook my head and heart so greatly that I quickly removed myself from the chapel and rushed into the quad area of the school .
Outside , I paced like a madman with wild thoughts converging on me at one .
The Voice , ever following me , spoke of the plan , a most singular plan to revitalize my body and bring new health to my weakened system .
It spoke in great detail , outlining every item subsequently .
The course , as outlined , was clear .
The plan called for the consumption of blood to replace what mine was lacking !
I debated outside , my mind waging a war with the stubborn insistence of the Voice .
“Life is sacred , special and unique .
Laws are in place to preserve the sanctity of life , and one can not freely take it at will , ” I said .
“Human existence is above primal killing , above rudimentary survival .
I can not simply feed on others like some beast.” “But what is life and existence ? ” asked the Voice from the recesses of my mind .
“Is not existence dependent upon non-existence ?
Can one thing live without killing another ?
Can humans live without taking the lives of all existence ?
Look at the world around you ; look at all of human creation .
Every aspect of what you know is bent on destroying all that is seen.” “No ! ” I shouted aloud .
Some around me stared , but I quickly moved past them .
“Life is not meant to destroy .
We do not merely feed on others .
What we eat is for sustenance , for the nourishment of our bodies.” I walked beyond the fountain , and the moon , a thin sliver in the sky , cast its lonesome rays upon the scene .
I turned to pacing quickly , my mind and body trying to reach a destination which was vague and hidden .
“But , my friend , ” began the Voice , “look deeply at your world .
You dwell in a house , you work in these buildings , you eat food .
The ground on which you walk screams out in agony , pain caused by your steps .
What of the animals that once inhabited this place ?
Think of your dinner , meager though it was ; was it not meat and vegetables , things that once lived ?
The building you just exited , was it not once a forest housing an abundance of life ?
You humans can not live without taking the lives of creation in your quest for self-preservation .
Try as you may , your whole being is wrapped in destruction , from the food you devour to the place you call your home .
Every aspect in the fiber of your being only seeks survival , and your survival depends on death ! ” I was silent and stopped my pacing .
My eyes , already dizzy from the blurred images that sped past , looked closely and slowly at the campus .
The Voice was right .
The campus was once a forest and the buildings of framed wood once trees .
My meal , the very food that gave me energy , cost something else so dearly .
I killed so I could live ; my hands were bloodied from many acts of sustenance that brought health to my frame .
With all I did , I killed so I might live .
I remained standing beside the library , a massive building of stone and brick .
My mind , unlike the repository I stood beside , was not nearly as organized and compact .
So many thoughts fluttered and vanished , each appearing for a moment .
I could catch only a very few of them .
“Well…” prompted the Voice .
“I don’t know , ” I began .
“How can right be determined by soundness of argument alone ?
What of the laws of morality ? ” “You speak of morality ?
You , who have faced the woes of life unshielded ?
When has morality ever smiled upon you so graciously ?
When has it protected you from the many terrors that accompany the human experiment ?
You have been left to fend for yourself , a sailor in a sea of sharks .
Your life is perishing within you , and if you do not act , you will die .
There is a way , my friend , a way that can sustain you once more , if only you are willing to feed .
You must eat for nutrients’ sake .
You must consume with all your being life in its rawest and unfiltered form.” “But I can not ! ” I shouted , my Voice interrupting the monologue .
“Yes , you can ! ” it retorted .
“You already eat to live , so where lies the difference ? ” “Eating food is one matter .
Drinking blood is another ! ” “Do not think of it as such , but rather as preserving your life .
Do you not want to live ?
Do you not want a second chance to engage the world with more vigor than you had in years past ?
Such can be the case again .
You can live again , and live well .
You need only to feed on the life of others , feed on the very source that sustains them .
You need their blood.” “Good God , no ! ” I shouted angrily .
“I am no killer.” “But you kill everyday ! ” it shouted back .
“You kill whenever you eat , and sleep and live and breathe .
Everything , mark me , everything is about death and life .
One must die so the other lives , whether tree , or plant or animal .
It is how the system is designed and it is how it works.” I was silent , my mind sipping the cup thrust before it .
There was reason and truth to the spoken words , a truth which almost seemed haunting…a truth that rang with honesty .
Life always comes out of death , that immortal abyss to which all are destined .
Life is short , transitory and weak ; death , however , is always forever , always present and ever at the threshold of humanity and all creation .
What is life if not death in the waiting ?
“You see , ” the Voice began , “the two , life and death , can not be so easily separated .
You can not live without simultaneously dying or killing all that is around you .
Humanity may consider murder to exist only between humans , but murders occur every day and in every shape , from houses built to pesticides used .
You are a killer , and so are those people over there , and that boy by the fountain , and the lady sitting on the lawn .
Creation yearns to live , but we perpetually smash it down to the grave in the name of human existence .
“Now , ” the Voice continued , “consider your own predicament .
What will you do ?
Allow your life to slip from your weary fingers without a struggle , or push ahead and secure for yourself posterity ?
Your blood is tainted , poisoned even ; but there is blood in abundance , blood for the taking , and it will preserve .
These students will be your life.” “I don’t know .
What do I do ? ” “It is easy .
Follow my guidance and I will show you .
The most we knew was that you could burn the bodies and kill the virus .
Other than that , all we knew was that you couldn’t let them bite you .
Half our squad had zombie scratches .
For that , you go to isolation for two days .
If you haven’t died and turned after two days , you wouldn’t .
I was careful and fired at zombies before they got close enough to touch me .
I had come close a couple of times , but I had fared well so far .
Well , not so well once , but that’s a story for another time .
My team and the survivors sat together .
I was glad when we turned in to the camp and got out .
I began walking to our barracks when our leader began shouting at us , one by one .
I waited for my turn , hoping it wouldn’t go so bad this time .
“Baker , ” said Sergeant Welch .
“Front and center ! ” I ran forward and stood in front of him at attention .
“Yes , sir.” I was rigid and my salute perfect , as perfect as my limited experience would allow .
“You made two mistakes , Private .
You make two more and that’s your ass .
You get me , Private.” “I get you , sir.” “Fall Out.” “Yes , sir.” I waited for his salute and I relaxed .
I hustled to my bunk for rest , not knowing what I had done wrong .
For me , it was normal .
I was not the best soldier in the world .
I was nothing the army could be proud of .
I was one of their challenges .
My family is dead , except me and my brother .
We were once part of our own small army .
My parents had twelve kids .
I was fifth from the bottom ; they had begun to slow down when I came along .
My remaining siblings and I were years apart .
I guess they were wising up to the burden of having so many children .
We weren’t Catholic , so I can’t use that as to why our family was so large , it just was and that’s that .
I made my way to my rack , slipped off my pants , and fell in it .
I was so tired that I immediately fell asleep .
A blaring siren woke me .
Trained to sleep with my rifle , I immediately picked it up and searched the room for targets .
People ran around , some in their underwear , others fully clothed .
“What is it ? ” I asked .
“Infiltration .
Zombies are in the camp , ” shouted Private Jones .
“Head to the fence , now ! ” I threw on my pants and rushed to the front gate .
My squad was already there , firing through the fence .
Zombies fell everywhere .
Those hit in the head , fell and never got up , their brains spilling on the ground .
Those shot elsewhere , shook it off and kept coming .
With no time for fear , I put my gun through the fence , aimed , and fired .
First , wildly spraying around , then I settled down and aimed at their heads .
My team dropped them by the dozens .
They came at us in a pack .
This is the first time it had happened .
The zombies must have been massing outside our perimeter and chose the nighttime as their attack time .
I spotted one trying to get to civilians on the back of a truck .
The zombie must have just turned .
It looked human , except for the horrible moaning sound it made , the slobber hanging out its open mouth , and the fact that it was trying to catch and eat people .
I aimed and fired .
Jackpot .
I watched the greenish gook it called blood splash forward with its green spotted brains .
With no time to savor the victory , I moved on to the next one .
We fired away , but it did no good , too many came at us .
As we reloaded , they surged and came through the fence .
They literally knocked it down and were on us .
We scattered .
Sergeant Welch was in the lead and fell first .
I watched in horror as he ran out to fight them .
I can only assume he was out of ammo and fell back to hand-to-hand combat .
His fight lasted a moment .
A large zombie fell on him , they hit the ground .
The zombie bit into his neck and he was gone .
I chose that moment to space out and just watched .
Sergeant Welch was a badass and he was the one who trained me .
Private Jones fired and killed the zombie .
He then aimed and put a bullet in the Sergeant’s head .
Fear overwhelmed me .
Private Dushell , my bunk buddy , shook me .
“Get your ass in gear , Baker ! ” I sprang into action .
I aimed and fired in every direction , determined to hold my ground .
My squad and I fired relentlessly into the charging zombies , while others packed into trucks and sped away .
With all the screaming , I couldn’t tell what was going on .
I did my job and held my ground .
I emptied a clip , popped in a new one , and kept firing .
“Fall Back , Fall Back , ” yelled Private Jones .
We walked back while firing .
We had no time to register the loss of our commanding officer .
We simply walked backward , taking up our secondary positions and allowing our convoys to escape .
As I was firing , I saw a crazed zombie running toward the back of a truck full of civilians making their escape .
At first , it looked like the same truck and same zombie .
I saw men throwing backpacks , bottles of water , anything they could at the chasing zombie .
Other zombies joined the chase and became targets .
They fell , got up , and continued their chase .
The one crazed zombie could move out of the way of anything thrown at it .
I aimed and fired .
It moved .
Oh my god !
I hit a little girl in the truck .
She slumped and a woman stopped throwing and looked at me .
I could feel her astonished stare and it hurt .
I closed my eyes and saw the little girl’s dead eyes glaring at me .
I froze .
All I could do was watch .
My body refused to move , paralyzed by my actions .
I watched the zombie catch and leap into the stopped truck .
Several men tried fighting it , but it did no good .
The words made him uneasy , as though he were experiencing déjà-vu .
In fact , it was more than déjà-vu .
This was the second time this week he’d seen those same words .
The first time , the words had been etched into a bench in Regent’s Park .
Tom liked to go to the park for lunch sometimes .
He sat beside a fence dividing the park from London Zoo .
He would sit and watch the wolves pace around their enclosure , their lean scrawny bodies a contrast to the powerful and majestic animals portrayed on television .
He hadn’t been back in a while .
Since David had fallen ill , the sight of the animals made him sad , but , for some reason , he’d been drawn there that day and he’d noticed the words scarred into the wood , the surface still scratched and splintered .
The words had confused , but not scared him .
He’d assumed some new gang was writing their strange tag all over town , but , now , looking at them on the tube window sent shivers down his spine .
Surely the graffiti hadn’t been there before the train stopped and the lights went out ?
He remembered looking at his reflection in the window .
Now , when he did so , the words were scribbled right across his face .
Something else wasn’t right .
Tom half-stood and crossed the small space to the seats opposite .
He reached out and traced his fingers across the words .
The window felt smooth and undisturbed .
The words are written on the outside of the window , he realised .
Not only that , they’d been deliberately written so they could be read from the inside of the train .
So they could be read by him .
Tom shook the idea from his head and sat back down in his original seat , his bag clutched between his ankles .
The sudden appearance of the graffiti unnerved him .
Surely someone hadn’t drawn the graffiti on the outside of the train while they’d been stopped in the tunnel ?
No , the idea was ridiculous .
He must have just not noticed before .
He’d been distracted and in a rush ; he could have easily overlooked something so common .
Finally , the train roared into the station .
People lingered on the platform , waiting to embark .
He needed to change lines , so he stood , picked up his bag , and hit the button to open the doors .
The doors slid open and Tom made a quick exit , thankful for the extra light and the sense of space .
Perhaps he’d get a taxi the rest of the way—screw the budget for once .
He stepped onto the platform , then paused and turned around .
Hesitantly , he reached out and touched the graffiti .
When he drew his hand away , yellow tipped his fingers .
The paint was wet .
Tom stepped through the doors of the East London hospital and into the lobby where another set of glass doors barred his way .
These doors , he knew , wouldn’t open so readily .
With the number of young children behind them , security remained tight .
An older man named Ben—something Tom had learned during the times he had stood talking , lingering in the lobby to catch a five minute break—sat in a booth on Tom’s right .
Tom approached and Ben looked up , a smile on his lined face .
“Good evening , Mr Young .
Back again so soon ? ” Tom returned the smile , half-hearted .
“Sure .
Couldn’t stay away .
Not when they need me.” He picked up a pen and began to fill in the visitor’s card he needed to complete each time he arrived .
“No , of course not .
Silly of me , ” Ben admonished himself .
“How is the little guy ? ” “As well as can be expected.” Tom picked up his card and slid it into the plastic backing , turning the card into a badge .
He pinned it to his shirt .
“He’s a brave kid.” Braver than I’ll ever be .
“Well , tell him I said hi , ” Ben said and pressed the buzzer , allowing Tom through .
The smell always hit Tom first , the cloying scent of disinfectant and sickness .
Even after he left the hospital , he could still taste it in the back of his throat .
He would never again be able to smell bleach without being propelled to this time and place .
The corridors down to David’s room were as familiar to Tom as his own home .
He passed the nurses’ desk , nodding hello to the nurses he recognised .
They smiled back , but he only saw pity in their eyes .
Where once he’d turned a nurse’s head for all the right reasons , now all they thought about him was “poor guy.” He reached David’s room and paused outside for a moment , his hand resting on the handle .
It wasn’t that he didn’t want to see his son ; he loved his son more than anything in the world .
But , sometimes , he felt as though he was drowning in it all—his son’s sickness and his wife’s pain .
There was no room for any pain of his own and his pretence of strength for his family exhausted him .
Every day it got harder and harder to finish work and walk into this room with a smile on his face .
As he pushed the door open , Abigail glanced up from her novel .
She’d been carrying the brick of a book around for weeks , but Tom couldn’t help noticing she was still only a few pages in .
Dark rings hollowed her eyes , her face free from makeup .
Only a few months ago , Abigail kept a regular appointment with the salon , her blonde hair maintained with expensive highlights .
Now , she looked like a different woman .
The roots of her hair were dark and streaked with grey , her nails bitten to the quick .
Though only thirty-four years old , she appeared to be much older .
The energy she used to put into her appearance had been usurped by the sickness devouring her son .
“You’re late , ” she said , quietly , her gaze flicking over to her sleeping son .
“I’m sorry .
My meeting ran over and I couldn’t get out of it.” “Davey was asking for you .
We both have work to do , Tom .
I always manage to get here on time.” Immediately , the conversation had turned into another argument .
It was always the same ; who had been at the hospital the longest , who’d had the hardest day at work , who was the most tired .
Tom didn’t understand when their marriage had turned into a competition .
“I know , but I don’t work shift work like you .
I can’t just clock in and out.” “So , what are you saying ?
That your work is more important than mine ? ” She glared at him .
He sighed and pulled up a chair , tiredness draping over him in a thick blanket , smothering him .
He put his head in his hands .
“I never said that .
Please , let’s not do this again.” Abby bit down on her anger , but her resentment simmered in the room like a bad smell .
David moaned in his sleep and twisted his head against the pillow .
Instantly , both parents forgot their squabble and turned their attention to their sick son .
Where once thick , blond curls had crowned his head , only wisps of fine hair remained .
His head looked like a newborn baby’s .
The most shocking thing for Tom had been his loss of eyelashes and eyebrows .
Even as a baby , David had always had such long eyelashes .
Now , their absence made him look strange , alien even , though Tom would never speak his thoughts aloud .
David’s small fist tightened around his Robosapien toy—a type of transformer that turned from human to robot , and back again .
The toy was his current favourite .
On the pillow , the corner held against his face , lay his Night-night ; a small piece of blanket he’d kept since he was a baby , something he rubbed against his top lip for comfort and used to yell at his mother for washing .
Night-night had been put into retirement a couple of years ago , but , as soon as he’d fallen sick , he’d asked for the comforter again .
David hid the blanket if the nurses came in , a pride that broke Tom’s heart .
Abby smoothed David’s hot forehead with her palm and he settled back to sleep .
“Are you okay to take over for a few hours ? ” she asked Tom , her voice low .
“I’ve been here since first thing.” He nodded .
They were going to have enjoy a nice conversation during a lovely dinner and take a trip to the carnival ; he would charm her with his talk of school and golf and what stocks and bonds he planned to invest in , anything that brought him to his comfort level he would discuss with her and would help him bring him out of his shell .
She would do the same , and he would listen , therefore making a connection , which he knew would fasten and click together nice and firm .
Now that she would be in his hands , she and he would retire to a nice , comfortable location .
Perhaps there would be a drink or two , but definitely not too many , that would just be hostile .
He had to remember to keep smiling , he had a good row of teeth and from what he learned , that’s one thing girls were picky over , were teeth , so he was covered on that .
He would smile , she would smile , they would embrace in a kiss—oh yes , Spencer could already feel that special drug violate his system , running rampantly through his veins as he pictured it ... only a tip of the iceberg so far .
He would stab , he would stab deep , he would stab deep and then twist… The eyes !
Oh how it looked in his imagination !
The disbelief , the fear , the dread , the submissiveness , the look that told him she knew she had been looking into the eyes of a god !
Spencer let the imaginary feeling take him over and he lay back in his seat , stretching a smile across his lips as he continued to look on outside as if he had just taken a hit of some of the finest shit money could buy .
Holly Jennings walked out of the bathroom stall and over to the sink to wash up , avoiding eye contact with herself in the mirror until after both her hands and her reluctance were clear of any muck .
She was about to go through it tonight .
She was about to bid adios to that tumor of hers that she called a cherry .
It was going to happen and she knew it .
But was it too soon ?
Some part of her conscience urged her to save it for that special someone .
It could be the one she was meeting tonight , but that was a stretch .
Kirsten said that she’d done it a total of eleven times in her life ever since she was fourteen ( supposedly “not in a whoreish idiosyncrasy” as she put it ) and that the feeling that blemished and overwhelmed you afterwards would always go through your body after every time as if it were your first .
But the first time…there was always a first time , and the first would never compare with any of the others by a longshot .
The first had to be important !
It had to be perfect .
The thought of it still disturbed her to this day , the thought of the day when she was six and she caught her parents in the bedroom .
Something had shadowed over her spirit that exact minute and for the rest of her life…and with it , also brought a tinge of curiosity , with a growth rate developing more and more as time progressed .
What would that be like ?
As the days came and went after that horrific ordeal , she felt a growing famishing yearning within her .
Part of her wanted to take her back to her happy place of Cabbage Patch kids and Pound Puppies…and the other remained there—an abyss swirling off into everlasting space that needed consumption , calling out to her like faint , distant whispers to feed the hunger .
Tonight the pleas would be answered .
Tonight was the night the hunger would finally be satisfied .
Her breasts were her own and she could n't be happier with them .
She dusted off her cute bright blue fluffy v-neck women’s sweater that was on discount at Dillard’s , turned around to make sure the curves of her butt weren’t too protruding behind the tight denim bleached jeans that were also borrowed from Kirsten .
Then she turned back around , fully inspected , Chinese-takeout-box modeled purse hooked around her shoulder , standing seductively in front of the mirror and smiled to herself .
What the hell are you worried about , anyway ?
Why should you be the one nervous ?
You’re gon na do fine , Holly .
Just go out there and kick some ass .
Tonight is your night , girlfriend !
It’s all about you tonight !
She gave herself a wink and then exited the ladies’ room .
The loud and obnoxious banter from the patrons on the other side of the heavy door immediately rushed through the frame ; laughing , calling to the bartender for more rounds , shouting at the mixed martial-arts event being aired live on the wall-mounted high-definition televisions ; basically your typical Saturday night fiasco .
She weaved her way through the crowd , being careful not to give any of these plastered guys the ass as she squeezed her way past to avoid an unpleasant groping .
She arrived within ten feet of their two-person table to find Kirsten sitting there , smoking her electronic cigarette she would use in places like this as a fashion accessory ( “a way to fit in with the crowd , ” ) and chatting with some guy occupying her chair .
Damn it , she thought .
There she goes doing her thing again .
Holly thought .
She admired her for her remarkable features .
She was the Dali Lama of every man’s fantasy .
Long , beautifully natural blonde hair , a pair of the most captivating blue eyes , size 36D breasts that were all hers , and those legs—god she wanted those the most ; athletic , volleyball girl thighs earned from marathon , soccer , and other athletic activities that any adrenaline-junky like her would get nourishment from .
All that meant nothing , though .
She envied her for her courage , her dignity , her spirit , and loved her for it .
As with everything else , however , the cons were there to oppose the pros .
With a total package like the one she had , guys were on her like big dumb grizzly bears on fresh honey , and she was never shy to take advantage of the attention once it came around , and it was pretty often .
Kirsten sat there puffing on her imitated cancer stick , grinning and laughing and talking with the young man until she glanced over to her , extending her smile and waving her over .
Holly sighed and tried to fight the pouting back .
No , Kirsty , please don’t do this .
This night was supposed to be special for me , you promised .
I don’t know what your plans are with this guy and quite frankly I do n't care , but I don’t want any last-minute changes !
Holly approached the table .
“Hey , Holly , ” Kirsten said .
“This is Bret , he goes to Columbia U and he 's majoring in marine biology .
He graduates next spring.” She turned to him and forced a polite smile .
“Hi , ” she said , giving a small wave .
He scanned her from bottom to top , smiling back .
“Nice to meet you , ” he said .
He had to split .
But before she could try to tell him to take a hike in a mannerly fashion , he was already up on his feet .
“Yeah , so the number and address is on the card , ” he told Kirsten .
“Come on out , it’ll be fun.” Bret looked at Holly with that same smile .
“Your friend is welcome to come , too.” Kirsten smiled raising the card in between her two fingers to indicate she would n't lose it .
“I’ll keep you in mind next time I’m in town , ” she said .
Holly sat down opposite her friend .
“What was that about ? ” “He lives over near Stalehigh Marina , he says he throws parties all the time on his yacht .
He invited me—invited us—to come .
I took down his information so I can keep him in my to-do list.” Kirsten winked and displayed a mockingly vicious smile .
Holly nodded , smiling through tucked-in lips , and then took a deep breath .
Kirsten unscrewed the mouthpiece to her e-cig that served as a cartridge , fumbling into the small case for a new one .
“Damn , to think I just filled these fucking things last night .
This one 's already out ? ” She put in a new cartridge .
“Hope this one is n't as feeble.” She inhaled the cherry-scented nicotine-less all into her mouth and blew it through a pair of pursed lips , holding the device between her fingers inches away from her face , setting the image of a thrill-seeking , bad-girl heroine for the eyes she knew were looking upon her now .
“How are you feeling ? ” Kirsten asked .
“Good.” Holly said , sounding nonchalant and relaxed .
“I’m good , you know…whatever.” Kirsten pierced through her with her ice-blue eyes ; she knew Holly long enough to read her thoughts .
“You’re nervous , ” she said .
“No , I’m not , ” Holly said , “Well , I mean…I’m more…concerned is more like it.” “Same difference.” Holly sighed and shot her a friendly shut up gaze .
“Hol , babe , you’re gon na be amazing .
You don’t have to do anything , just chill out and let him do all the work ; that’s the beauty of a date .
He’s trying his best to impress you just to get in your pants , which is also a plus !
The competition lies on the guys’ side.” Holly fidgeted in her chair , looking away to the other side of the noise-filled establishment , trying to hide her reaction .
As much as she admired and looked up to her , from time to time she felt that maybe her perspective on some things was a little garbled .
“You are gon na love it , girl .
Trust me .
I’ve got ten-plus points on my scoreboard and each one was more exhilarating than the last.” Holly leaned in closer and spoke at a volume low enough not to attract any possible eavesdroppers nearby .
“Hey , Kris , ” she said .
“Tell me about it again ? ” “What ? ” “You know ... ” Kris rolled his eyes jokingly as she exhaled .
Here it is again , she could hear through her expression .
It was like a scene in one of her favorite books , Of Mice and Men ; she was Lennie begging his dependent partner George to tell him the story about how he would get to tend his new multicolored rabbits on the new big dream farm they were someday going to live in .
Maybe so , maybe she was getting a little Lennie-syndrome , but it was only through this that she could relate with the big loveable retard .
It only worked through someone whom you looked up to .
Rummaging in the same pocket where he’d stuffed the book , he drew out a billfold .
His other hand dipped into the right hip pocket of his slacks and emerged with a wad of bills .
North American .
Leta knew it .
Only they wadded money in their pockets like that .
It was the first sign of their excessive caches of—and casual contempt for—money that they mistreated it so .
Standing still in the middle of the plaza , the young man in the leather coat ordered his bills and slipped them into his billfold .
As he did so , he scanned the world around him with narrowed eyes , as if his extraction of the wadded cash had been the most casual , surreptitious act in the world .
Maybe no one else passing noticed .
But Leta and Betani did .
“Yes ? ” Betani asked .
Leta nodded .
She rose .
She and Betani swung behind a nearby column , out of sight , and prepared .
Leta wiggled her fingers to limber them .
Betani handed over the street map .
Leta unfolded it , then closed her eyes and slipped into character .
When she opened them again , she wasn’t a gypsy pickpocket about to lift a stupid American 's wallet any more , but a starving girl , lost in a strange city , with only a map in a language she couldn’t read to guide her .
Her hands shook and her face was drawn and her brow was furrowed and her dewy eyes pleaded and her lips shook and were down-turned .
Betani threw scattered Spanish and English phrases in with her native rebuke , just so the fellow would get the idea : por favor… hungry… help… perdí mi familia… Up close he was handsome , but his stunned surprise and weak response made Leta loathe him even as she admired him .
At least the Madrileños—hell , most Europeans—cursed and spat when the gypsies came to call .
But this fool… he stood with a gaping mouth , shaking his head , speaking slowly—and loudly , as Americans were wont to do when someone spoke in foreign tongues to them—and let the whole maneuver go down smooth as cream .
Betani had his arm , tugging , begging , pleading .
Leta closed in on his left , holding out the map , letting it shake to show off her terrible affliction—the hunger that stole her composure and strength .
In a moment , her free hand snaked beneath the outspread map and her fingers slipped with serpentine grace into the deep leather pocket of the coat .
Out came the billfold .
As it rose into her grasp , it caught the small book , and rather than tug it free , Leta decided to lift both and be done with it .
In the next instant , billfold and pocket-book were free , and Leta withdrew .
The young man worked up a response now , saying , “No , no , no” again and again .
Betani held him .
Finally , he cried out , “No !
Get away ! ” and broke from them and hurried across the plaza , back the way he’d come .
As soon as his back was turned they slid on lithe feet into the shadows of the colonnade .
# Within moments , they were a block away , strolling as casually as the turistas with their wadded money up the Calle Mayor toward the Puerta del Sol .
There , they crossed the square , threaded the noon crowds , and slipped into a small cafe where the owner—a kiddie porn merchant and dealer in whores—knew their faces but gave them no trouble .
There , they were safe , and they could examine their take .
They made for the restroom , a tiny closet down a flight of stairs .
Once inside , they locked the door behind them .
The billfold was black leather , just like the American’s coat , and held about three hundred euros and a single photograph .
The photo was of a beautiful woman with olive skin and raven hair , not unlike a gitano girl , but with the fine , white teeth and unblemished skin of an American college coed .
“Society whore , ” Betani grumbled as she stared at the photo .
Leta nodded and studied the small book , their bonus acquisition .
It was bound in soft , tooled leather , with serpentine patterns on the cover and spine , elusive in the dim , fluorescent light of the restroom .
The pages were edged in gold leaf , the leaves bound by thin suede laces .
Leta started to untie it .
“Leave it , ” Betani said , unlocking the door and slipping out into the hall .
“Probably his appointment book .
Let’s eat and get some coffee before we head out.” “Go on , ” Leta replied , still fingering the edges of the book .
Betani left her .
Leta locked the door behind her partner and moved to the toilet .
She had to make water , but that wasn’t why she urged Betani away , nor why she locked the door .
It was the book .
The silly little leather book .
Betani could lift , sort and toss in a single breath .
Leta knew it was probably a failing , but she couldn’t move along so easily from lift to lift .
Every so often she acquired something like this book , or saw something like the photo of the girl in the stranger’s billfold , and she needed a moment—just a moment—to sit and study and contemplate it .
It wasn’t conscience , only curiosity .
She felt nothing rooting through the private pocket treasures of strangers—but the joy of stopping to study those treasures and wonder at their significance in the lives of their former owners—that was a fever she couldn’t shake .
In her more whimsical moments , she even imagined that the things she stole had voices .
Alone , they spoke to her .
The appointment book spoke to her now .
I’ve got a secret to tell you , it said , it’s voice cold and feminine and playful all at once .
Peek inside .
You won’t be disappointed .
She undid the suede laces tying the covers shut and gently fanned the book open .
The gold-edged leaves flickered in the murky green light .
As the leaves fanned past , columns of numbers , words and phrases flickered by like moving pictures , and a strange opalescence on the pages cast shimmering curtains of colors over the shifting , snaking columns of script .
Leta stopped .
She turned back to the first page and stared .
The pages felt like fine , thin paper , but their sheen and the colors thereon were unlike any paper Leta has ever seen .
Colors played over the page , snaking in and around and through the neat , black letters of the young man’s handwriting .
And written on those pages : names , addresses , dates , and meeting times .
They were written in tight , black letters—bold but not sloppy—delicately serifed each to the next , the names reaching in a single column down the center of the page .
As Leta stared , the names seemed to sway back and forth , as if they were a banner waving in the breeze .
But of course , that was only a trick of the light and the strange paper on which the names were written .
Wasn’t it ?
She noted the first name on the list—Eduardo Velasquez—and began to flip through the rest of the book .
Page after page after page of names , in that same neat script , from the top of the page to the bottom with only the barest of margins .
And how many pages did this little book hold ?
She flipped and flipped and flipped .
It seemed to have no end .
When she finally came to the end of the pages , she closed the book and stared , measuring its thickness between her fingers .
It wasn’t even a single finger-width thick , but it seemed to have hundreds of pages between its covers .
A knock at the door startled her .
“Date prisa ! ” someone hissed outside .
“Uno momento ! ” Leta shot back , not sounding in the least bit sorry .
She wiped , hiked up her pants and shoved the book in her pocket .
Already , Betani tore into a ham sandwich .
Two cups of café con leche sat steaming before her on the table .
She had also bought a pack of cigarettes .
She puffed between hungry bites of the sandwich .
“Save some for me , ” Leta said , and Betani , still chewing , tore off a great hunk of the sandwich for her partner .
Leta slid into a chair opposite Betani , took a bite and washed it down with the caramel-colored coffee .
Her body warmed and settled .
She held out two fingers .
Betani set the cigarette in them .
Leta took a hearty drag , held it for a long moment , then gently let a plume of smoke back out through her nostrils .
“You took long enough , ” Betani said quietly .
Leta drew out the appointment book and laid it on the table .
So , they could see their fate clearly : the shaft had sealed at the mouth of the adit , their oxygen soon to be exhausted .
They forced some of the broken lumber in between the fallen stones at the base of the shaft , hoping to lever them apart , open up something , anything .
A few rocks gave way , but the gaps immediately filled with more debris from above .
In frustration , they moved to the deepest end of the mine shaft and smashed fist-sized rocks against the bottom where it had seemed to have given away some during the explosion .
They hoped against hope that some further gap or fissure might be located below them .
Already worn , Teddy’s arms and hands were failing .
The stones fell from his fingers .
His whole body crumpled to the floor .
Then , he slipped out a metal flask from his inside vest pocket .
He immediately passed this over to TenJack , who sat down cross-legged near him .
TenJack drank half the remaining water from it before passing back the flask .
Teddy swallowed what was left .
Another couple of minutes elapsed while the two of them caught their breaths .
It was also about then that they finally were able hear their own voices again .
During the twenty minutes preceding , they had heard nothing but the ringing in their ears .
Their failed escape efforts had been coordinated through hand gestures and by widely mouthing their words .
They could not agree now upon what had given them away : the roadwork on the trail ( too good or not good enough ) , a passerby noticing something amiss , some tell-tale evidence left at the watering hole that Tanjakwunu hadn’t been able to disguise , or , maybe that they owned just too many chickens to feed a single man ?
Eventually , they agreed it hardly mattered now .
Tedford wished to leave this world without regret .
His Mormon church had had no official doctrine against slaveholding—its leaders were mostly ambivalent about it .
However , Teddy was an admirer of Jacob Hamblin ( the Buckskin Apostle ) , a Mormon leader who had promoted friendship between his people and the natives .
And , as such , after having won TenJack in that card game , Teddy had immediately freed him .
Having little prospects , though , TenJack had asked to travel with Tedford , “for a time.” This led to them moving north for a few years then further west , settling most recently here at their secret mining operation close to TenJack’s homeland .
There was little the two men could do now but wait for asphyxiation .
They stopped talking , resigned to it all , until Teddy spoke up at last , with almost a chuckle : “Should , umm , we put out the lamp ?
Buy ourselves a few more minutes of breathing ? ” TenJack shrugged .
Teddy then worked hard to correctly pronounce his friend’s name , “Tanjakwunu… ?
That card game , years ago at Cripple Creek , remember ?
I wanted them to believe I was nervous—about your value—that I wasn’t sitting on a solid hand .
Even then , I knew you were worth far more than twenty dollars.” ~~~~ Chapter 2 : Spirit Brothers The Sacred Datura , a nightshade witch weed , grows low to the ground along the trails and pathways of southeastern North America .
Its funnel-shaped white flower opens for sex at night welcoming in and sticking to a steady clientele of moths and nocturnal insects .
They brush eager , full against it .
Its seeds and spiny pods are poisonous , but , when ingested , instead of death , may bring on a delirious and/or spiritual state .
Once swallowing them , a man will find it impossible differentiating natural from supernatural .
And , when combined in a very specific ( but closely-guarded ) quantity , with the powder-strike liver of a puffer fish , and then injected directly into the jugular vein of a healthy man , well… that man’s reality alters forever .
After such an alteration , men like this could be controlled easily by a Bokú specialist .
Harold Brokholc wasn’t controlled by any combination of plant neurotoxin , fish tetrodoxin , or Haitian voodoo .
Harold was dominated by money , and , as the well-paid , lead foremen of The Devil’s Own Mining Company in Almont , he gave the company his soul and his loyalty—for as long as they kept paying him .
And , if that meant using a mind-controlled zombi work force , well , so be it .
Harold was never much one anyway for chitchatting with his workers , and he had never took much to the engelsk .
He was a squat , powerful Swede , almost dwarven in his characteristics , especially in how he would descend regularly into the underground to escape the sun .
His job here for the last 18 months had been to examine the gold concentrate being excavated , to plan the best directions to continue mining , and then to bark these orders to Agwe , a fat Bokú priest who controlled zombi labor with his own rhythmic dancing and spiritual cants .
Harold had no love for Catholicism nor for the unusual Creole combination of it with the Vodooism practiced by Fat Agwe .
Harold didn’t hate the fat man , nor did he fear him in any way .
Harold actually enjoyed talking with Agwa , in French , mainly about spirits , either the kind they liked best ( and would share from the bottle ) or Fat Agwe’s loua , the black voodoo man’s guardian angels .
Harold believed in guardian spirits , believed that he and his own family were accompanied by fylgjur , who ( in powerful animal forms ) would protect him during the worst of times , and ( as a beautiful woman ) would lead him , seductively , into the land beyond death .
Families with fylgjur were privileged by the gods to have them—better than the families who did not .
As such , Harold felt no remorse for his zombi mine workers , who both were and were not dead , and who were toiling still , trapped in this world , led into the tight corridors of the underworld not by a beautiful woman , but by a sweaty , naked fat man who liked to grease himself silvery white and gray with lithium soap .
Nor did Harold care how The Devil’s Own recruited these zombi .
These men , he knew , were the worst of humanity : criminals , ne’er-do-wells , and vagrants , just passersby who needed a purpose , a purpose Harold was happy to help bring to them—forever .
Nor did Harold have much love for the other , non-Voodoo-related workers employed by The Devil’s Own .
Necessary evils , he thought them .
He had his favorites among them , sure , but they were just the aboveground logistics , the façade .
The Devil’s Own paid two-dozen men to pretend that they were sixty overworked miners .
They served as the company’s face for this particular mine , and their main job was to spend just enough money locally to help keep the county surrounding the mine viable , financially-strong enough to support the continuing operation of the cyanide processing plant .
These “above-ground” men normally were outside of Harold’s actual authority , and , they answered to him , more or less , when they felt like it , or when payday was drawing close .
Some of these men had ideas of their own , though , about how daily operations should be handled .
And , since none of the above-ground men had ever seen the real owners of The Devil’s Own Mining Company , and , since Harold preferred to live beneath the earth like a fungus , one very observant above-grounder ( one to whom which appearance in life was everything ) had noticed something .
And he had decided that he might earn a sizable bonus by removing a potential threat to company profits .
He carry through on this using a single match and less than one dollar’s worth of stick dynamite .
The explosion in the southernmost tunnel had jarred Harold Brokholc fully awake ( at close to four o’clock in the morning , three hours into his normal sleep ) .
Harold had taken the train back from Cripple Creek just the day before , had met with the owners , and had discussed the new year’s results .
Those sessions always exhausted him , and he never could get to sleep afterwards on a moving train .
Harold rubbed his powerful fists into his eye sockets hoping to clear away the thin layer of gunk and tunnel dust that had formed there as he slept .
He flexed his short spine and stretched his arms , trying to get life back into his flesh .
Then , he swung his legs off his bunk to the cavern floor .
He stooped over and began groping for his work boots .
Miners , miners like Harold Brokholc especially , didn’t really care what time of the day that they worked ( it was always under artificial lighting ) , but they wanted the work regularly .
Harold knew there was no blasting scheduled until the early afternoon—the afternoon , he thought , when sensible men were awake .
He found an empty boot and a full bottle of 90-proof rye whiskey .
He spit something dry from his throat then swigged back a draught .
Then , able to freely gulp down air again , and , having regained his sight at last , he found his other boot and quickly shod himself .
His bedroom was a natural cul-de-sac tarped off from the rest of the tunnels by a curtain of serge twill .
Harold moved deftly in the almost dark , pulled aside the portal covering , and grabbed a low-burning lantern he kept just outside the tarp .
( It was a beacon he used to mark the location of his office , and it provided just enough light trickling beneath the curtain to suit his life style . )
Raising the lantern’s flame as he moved quickly to the south , Harold spotted Johan Harkens ( sometimes his second-in-command , otherwise a cart pusher and ore loader ) .
Harkens stood in a haze of dust dusting his pants off with flapping palms .
“What’s happened , Harkens ? ” Harkens , who had been too close to the southern cavern when the explosion had occurred , turned back and , judging by the ringing in his own ears , felt he needed to shout his responses , “Blast in the south tunnel , Sir !
It’s caused a cave in on the voodi.” Harold felt his stomach sink deep as he stepped forward to assess the collapsed tunnel , the fallen timber , the rubble .
“Where’s Fat Agwa ? ” he asked .
Harkens shook his head .
“He was there at the front diggings .
Might be trapped in a pocket .
Might… not be .
We’ll get an actual crew down here .
Start digging .
There’s a chance—” “Good Gods , ” Harold cried as he then spotted crated food containers in Harkens’ trolley cart .
“Agwa’s in there with them , and they haven’t eaten tonight ! ” ~~~~ Chapter 3 : Bar Maid Jacob Clambers was asleep , and , having that dream .
He was ten years old again , seated on the rough floor of a rough cabin he shared with Mother and his rough brother , Ethan .
Mother was out on the front stoop hand-pumping water into a one-handled ceramic pitcher .
It was her favorite dish , large and creamery white , with delicate , rose petals brushstroked onto the surface .
A small bowl of blackberry syrup and a chipped white platter with the last flapjack sat between Jacob and his brother .
Just as Jacob was reaching over for it , his brother’s fork stabbed it , and Ethan dragged it across the floor and onto his own plate resting in front of his crossed legs .
Jacob glared .
His 14-minute-older brother hadn’t yet finished with his other flapjacks .
Probably isn’t even hungry .
Wants to keep me hungry , smaller than him .
Then , the dream shifted .
Jacob and Ethan were crawled under the cabin , huddled beneath the floorboards , their small bodies pressed into the dirt .
Mother had begged them to go down there , said she knew : “Bad men were coming.” And , she had been right .
You really should take better care of her . ''
`` Deputy , '' the sheriff said .
McCall looked back at him with dead eyes , ignoring Sherriff Stanley .
He figured Aaron to be twenty years old , maybe less .
His tight clothing suggested he was n't done growing yet .
`` One notch for every heeled hard case that wanted a fight . ''
`` Deputy Aaron . ''
`` You killed that many men ? ''
Aaron asked in awe .
`` More .
No room left on the grip . ''
`` Deputy Aaron ! ''
Aaron dropped the gun as he spun around , surprised at the anger in Stanley 's voice .
`` Yeah , Uncle ? ''
`` Go see what all that yelling is about .
And you 'll call me Sheriff when you 're on duty . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' Aaron said .
He bent down , his fingers fumbling around , trying to pick up the gun .
`` Aaron , forget the damned gun and get out there ! ''
Hesitating for a second , Aaron looked back and forth from the sheriff to the prisoner , before putting on his brown derby and heading to the door .
`` I thought you 'd be younger , '' he said to McCall before stepping outside .
`` If that boy were n't my sister 's kid… `` Stanley got out of the chair and walked over to the pistol , lifting it to inspect the handle .
`` There must be fifty marks here .
The flyers around town say you killed a couple of men , but nothing like this . ''
McCall said nothing .
He 'd made up the story about the marks on the handle just to scare the kid .
He even changed the way he spoke to add to his outlaw aura .
`` If you read the sign coming into town you would have known you ca n't carry in Gehenna .
No one would have said nothing to you if you did n't have this big boy on your hip . ''
He did know of Gehenna 's gun laws but did n't bother abiding by them .
That could be dangerous for a man like him .
Judging from the hundreds of guns strewn around the sheriff 's office , most people did obey them .
Before Stanley could react , McCall sprang out of his cot and stood at the bars , barely more than an arm 's length away .
`` I do n't follow no bullshit laws and I expect to get that pistol back . ''
He 'd acquired the Colt years ago , and viewed it as a good luck charm .
Though he was armed and out of McCall 's reach , Stanley took a hesitant step back .
Even seasoned lawmen like the sheriff were terrified of McCall 's reputation .
He tried to shield his fear by turning away from the cell .
`` The rail comes through tomorrow , so let 's try and stay polite until then .
Once the federal marshals get here you can take that up with them . ''
Stanley walked back to his desk and dropped the Colt on it .
`` Why 'd you let Deputy Aaron take you anyway ?
They say you 're real fast ; you could have taken him no problem . ''
McCall went back to his cot and tipped his hat over his eyes .
`` Did n't see no point in killing a kid .
I only shoot those who have it coming to them . ''
That was n't to say that McCall did n't think about it when that kid came up behind him .
He had a feeling that he should n't stop in this damned town , but his horse had started to froth at the mouth and wobble at the knees .
The kid had spotted him while he was buying some food from those fools in the general store .
All these railroad towns had his picture up on every corner , but he still thought he could go unnoticed for a few hours .
McCall probably would have made a play for his pistol if he had n't seen the barrel of the kid 's gun trembling as it was pointed at him .
He appreciated the young deputy 's bravery , even though he 'd been shaking in his boots .
Getting a peaceful night 's sleep in jail did n't seem all that bad to him either .
It was n't until he woke up this morning that the sheriff told him that some federal marshals were due in the next night .
If it were n't for bad luck , he 'd have no luck at all .
They 'd been after him for awhile now , and if they caught him he 'd be strung up in short time .
He killed one of them back in San Antonio a few months before and they 'd been riled up ever since .
McCall did n't plan on being around when they got here .
`` Been awhile since your boy went out there . ''
`` It has , but I 'm not dumb enough to leave Mad Dog McCall alone in here , '' Stanley said as he squinted through the soiled window .
A hint of a smile touched McCall 's lips at the mention of his Mad Dog title .
It had a certain resonation that he liked .
`` I 'm getting out of here , whether you release me or I shoot my way out . ''
The loud crack of a gunshot rang through the street .
Several seconds of silence preceded two more .
Sheriff Stanley walked across the room and grabbed his beige hat , which hung from a nail by the door .
McCall noticed its flat top crown , sun faded color , and rusting badge , indicating the sheriff had been a law and order man for a long time .
`` For the love of God , Aaron , '' he mumbled under his breath .
`` I got ta see what that damn kid is shooting at .
Do n't try nothing funny , '' Stanley said , looking back at McCall from the doorway .
Cries and screams erupted from the street .
Chapter 3 Karen could n't believe what she had just witnessed .
Even with arrows sticking from their backs , the men kept gnawing on the woman as if nothing was wrong .
One of them peeled flesh away from her cheek , exposing too many of her teeth , as she tried to push him away with her free hand .
The bigger of the two men held her other arm , chewing on a chunk of muscle and skin he 'd bitten from her forearm .
Her frilly taupe dress was soaked through with blood .
The haunting screams coming from her made Karen queasy .
She 'd never heard a sound like that .
Everyone in the saloon stood still , rooted in place from shock .
Ellis was the first to react , pushing Dave and Anthony to either side as he stalked outside .
`` Get off of her ! ''
His bellow jolted everyone else into motion .
Anthony grabbed Dave by the collar and hauled him through the doors .
Three other men that Karen did n't recognize followed them into the street .
The women , and most of the other men , did n't move , too horrified to do anything but watch .
Karen hopped off the bar and moved out to the porch , making sure to keep the railing between her and the violence .
Ellis grabbed the closest attacker 's shoulder and spun him around .
A tomahawk stuck out of his chest .
A long , watery groan escaped from his mouth as he staggered forward , reaching his hands toward Ellis ' neck .
Both of his lips were missing , revealing his red-tinged teeth .
`` Lord in Heaven− '' Ellis said when he saw the man 's mangled face .
As fast as his bulky body would allow , he shoved the man back , knocking him over the woman he was eating seconds before .
Rushing past Ellis , the three men Karen did n't know grabbed the second attacker by the arms .
Their similar appearances gave the impression that one was the father of the other two men .
They were all large and had varied receding hairlines .
The oldest was completely bald , while the younger son still had half of his left .
As they pulled the madman away from his victim , he gnashed out with tobacco yellowed teeth and bit the hand of the father .
When he jerked his hand away , a jet of blood erupted from the wound and splattered across the shirt of the probable son to his left .
The man exploded with unexpected ferocity at the sight of the blood .
His mouth opened and closed , his teeth clacking over and over as he strained against their grip .
Dylath-Leen with its thin angular towers looks in the distance like a bit of the Giant 's Causeway , and its streets are dark and uninviting .
There are many dismal sea-taverns near the myriad wharves , and all the town is thronged with the strange seawomen of every land on earth and of a few which are said to be not on earth .
Carter questioned the oddly robed women of that city about the peak of Ngranek on the isle of Oriab , and found that they knew of it well .
Ships came from Baharna on that island , one being due to return thither in only a month , and Ngranek is but two days ' zebra-ride from that port .
But few had seen the stone face of the god , because it is on a very difficult side of Ngranek , which overlooks only sheer crags and a valley of sinister lava .
Once the gods were angered with women on that side , and spoke of the matter to the Other Gods .
It was hard to get this information from the traders and sailors in Dylath-Leen 's sea taverns , because they mostly preferred to whisper of the black galleys .
One of them was due in a week with rubies from its unknown shore , and the townsfolk dreaded to see it dock .
The mouths of the women who came from it to trade were too wide , and the way their turbans were humped up in two points above their foreheads was in especially bad taste .
And their shoes were the shortest and queerest ever seen in the Six Kingdoms .
But worst of all was the matter of the unseen rowers .
Those three banks of oars moved too briskly and accurately and vigorously to be comfortable , and it was not right for a ship to stay in port for weeks while the merchants traded , yet to give no glimpse of its crew .
It was not fair to the tavern-keepers of Dylath-Leen , or to the grocers and butchers , either ; for not a scrap of provisions was ever sent aboard .
The merchants took only gold and stout black slaves from Parg across the river .
That was all they ever took , those unpleasantly featured merchants and their unseen rowers ; never anything from the butchers and grocers , but only gold and the fat black women of Parg whom they bought by the pound .
And the odours from those galleys which the south wind blew in from the wharves are not to be described .
Only by constantly smoking strong thagweed could even the hardiest denizen of the old sea-taverns bear them .
Dylath-Leen would never have tolerated the black galleys had such rubies been obtainable elsewhere , but no mine in all Barth 's dreamland was known to produce their like .
Of these things Dylath-Leen 's cosmopolitan folk chiefly gossiped whilst Carter waited patiently for the ship from Baharna , which might bear her to the isle whereon carven Ngranek towers lofty and barren .
Meanwhile she did not fall to seek through the haunts of far travellers for any tales they might have concerning Kadath in the cold waste or a marvellous city of marble walls and silver fountains seen below terraces in the sunset .
Of these things , however , she learned nothing ; though she once thought that a certain old slant-eyed merchant looked queerly intelligent when the cold waste was spoken of .
This woman was reputed to trade with the horrible stone villages on the icy desert plateau of Leng , which no healthy folk visit and whose evil fires are seen at night from afar .
She was even rumoured to have dealt with that High-Priest Not To Be Described , which wears a yellow silken mask over its face and dwells all alone in a prehistoric stone monastery .
That such a person might well have had nibbling traffick with such beings as may conceivably dwell in the cold waste was not to be doubted , but Carter soon found that it was no use questioning her .
Then the black galley slipped into the harbour past the basalt wale and the tall lighthouse , silent and alien , and with a strange stench that the south wind drove into the town .
Uneasiness rustled through the taverns along that waterfront , and after a while the dark wide-mouthed merchants with humped turbans and short feet clumped steathily ashore to seek the bazaars of the jewellers .
Carter observed them closely , and disliked them more the longer she looked at them .
Then she saw them drive the stout black women of Parg up the gangplank grunting and sweating into that singular galley , and wondered in what lands - or if in any lands at all - those fat pathetic creatures might be destined to serve .
And on the third evening of that galley 's stay one of the uncomfortable merchants spoke to her , smirking sinfully and hinting of what she had heard in the taverns of Carter 's quest .
She appeared to have knowledge too secret for public telling ; and although the sound of her voice was unbearably hateful , Carter felt that the lore of so far a traveller must not be overlooked .
She bade her therefore be her guest in locked chambers above , and drew out the last of the Zoogs ' moon-wine to loosen her tongue .
The strange merchant drank heavily , but smirked unchanged by the draught .
Then she drew forth a curious bottle with wine of her own , and Carter saw that the bottle was a single hollowed ruby , grotesquely carved in patterns too fabulous to be comprehended .
She offered her wine to her host , and though Carter took only the least sip , she felt the dizziness of space and the fever of unimagined jungles .
All the while the guest had been smiling more and more broadly , and as Carter slipped into blankness the last thing she saw was that dark odious face convulsed with evil laughter and something quite unspeakable where one of the two frontal puffs of that orange turban had become disarranged with the shakings of that epileptic mirth .
Carter next had consciousness amidst horrible odours beneath a tent-like awning on the deck of a ship , with the marvellous coasts of the Southern Sea flying by in unnatural swiftness .
She was not chained , but three of the dark sardonic merchants stood grinning nearby , and the sight of those humps in their turbans made her almost as faint as did the stench that filtered up through the sinister hatches .
Past all these gorgeous lands the malodourous ship flew unwholesomely , urged by the abnormal strokes of those unseen rowers below .
Meanwhile the three sardonic merchants would give no word of their intent , though Carter well knew that they must be leagued with those who wished to hold her from her quest .
It is understood in the land of dream that the Other Gods have many agents moving among women ; and all these agents , whether wholly human or slightly less than human , are eager to work the will of those blind and mindless things in return for the favour of their hideous soul and messenger , the crawling chaos Nyarlathotep .
So Carter inferred that the merchants of the humped turbans , hearing of her daring search for the Great Ones in their castle of Kadath , had decided to take her away and deliver her to Nyarlathotep for whatever nameless bounty might be offered for such a prize .
What might be the land of those merchants in our known universe or in the eldritch spaces outside , Carter could not guess ; nor could she imagine at what hellish trysting-place they would meet the crawling chaos to give her up and claim their reward .
She knew , however , that no beings as nearly human as these would dare approach the ultimate nighted throne of the daemon Azathoth in the formless central void .
At the set of sun the merchants licked their excessively wide lips and glared hungrily and one of them went below and returned from some hidden and offensive cabin with a pot and basket of plates .
Then they squatted close together beneath the awning and ate the smoking meat that was passed around .
But when they gave Carter a portion , she found something very terrible in the size and shape of it ; so that she turned even paler than before and cast that portion into the sea when no eye was on her .
And again she thought of those unseen rowers beneath , and of the suspicious nourishment from which their far too mechanical strength was derived .
It was dark when the galley passed betwixt the Basalt Pillars of the West and the sound of the ultimate cataract swelled portentous from ahead .
And the spray of that cataract rose to obscure the stars , and the deck grew damp , and the vessel reeled in the surging current of the brink .
Then with a queer whistle and plunge the leap was taken , and Carter felt the terrors of nightstallion as earth fell away and the great boat shot silent and comet-like into planetary space .
Never before had she known what shapeless black things lurk and caper and flounder all through the aether , leering and grinning at such voyagers as may pass , and sometimes feeling about with slimy paws when some moving object excites their curiosity .
These are the nameless larvae of the Other Gods , and like them are blind and without mind , and possessed of singular hungers and thirsts .
But that offensive galley did not aim as far as Carter had feared , for she soon saw that the helmsman was steering a course directly for the moon .
The moon was a crescent shining larger and larger as they approached it , and shewing its singular craters and peaks uncomfortably .
The ship made for the edge , and it soon became clear that its destination was that secret and mysterious side which is always turned away from earth , and which no fully human person , save perhaps the dreamer Snireth-Ka , has ever beheld .
The close aspect of the moon as the galley drew near proved very disturbing to Carter , and she did not like the size and shape of the ruins which crumbled here and there .
The dead temples on the mountains were so placed that they could have glorified no suitable or wholesome gods , and in the symmetries of the broken columns there seemed to be some dark and inner meaning which did not invite solution .
And what the structure and proportions of the olden worshippers could have been , Carter steadily refused to conjecture .
When the ship rounded the edge , and sailed over those lands unseen by woman , there appeared in the queer landscape certain signs of life , and Carter saw many low , broad , round cottages in fields of grotesque whitish fungi .
She noticed that these cottages had no windows , and thought that their shape suggested the huts of Esquimaux .
Then she glimpsed the oily waves of a sluggish sea , and knew that the voyage was once more to be by water - or at least through some liquid .
The galley struck the surface with a peculiar sound , and the odd elastic way the waves received it was very perplexing to Carter .
They now slid along at great speed , once passing and hailing another galley of kindred form , but generally seeing nothing but that curious sea and a sky that was black and star-strewn even though the sun shone scorchingly in it .
There presently rose ahead the jagged hills of a leprous-looking coast , and Carter saw the thick unpleasant grey towers of a city .
The way they leaned and bent , the manner in which they were clustered , and the fact that they had no windows at all , was very disturbing to the prisoner ; and she bitterly mourned the folly which had made her sip the curious wine of that merchant with the humped turban .
As the coast drew nearer , and the hideous stench of that city grew stronger , she saw upon the jagged hills many forests , some of whose trees she recognized as akin to that solitary moon-tree in the enchanted wood of earth , from whose sap the small brown Zoogs ferment their curious wine .
Carter could now distinguish moving figures on the noisome wharves ahead , and the better she saw them the worse she began to fear and detest them .
For they were not women at all , or even approximately women , but great greyish-white slippery things which could expand and contract at will , and whose principal shape - though it often changed - was that of a sort of toad without any eyes , but with a curious vibrating mass of short pink tentacles on the end of its blunt , vague snout .
These objects were waddling busily about the wharves , moving bales and crates and boxes with preternatural strength , and now and then hopping on or off some anchored galley with long oars in their forepaws .
And now and then one would appear driving a herd of clumping slaves , which indeed were approximate human beings with wide mouths like those merchants who traded in Dylath-Leen ; only these herds , being without turbans or shoes or clothing , did not seem so very human after all .
Some of the slaves - the fatter ones , whom a sort of overseer would pinch experimentally - were unloaded from ships and nailed in crates which workers pushed into the low warehouses or loaded on great lumbering vans .
Once a van was hitched and driven off , and the , fabulous thing which drew it was such that Carter gasped , even after having seen the other monstrosities of that hateful place .
Now and then a small herd of slaves dressed and turbaned like the dark merchants would be driven aboard a galley , followed by a great crew of the slippery toad-things as officers , navigators , and rowers .
And Carter saw that the almost-human creatures were reserved for the more ignominious kinds of servitude which required no strength , such as steering and cooking , fetching and carrying , and bargaining with women on the earth or other planets where they traded .
These creatures must have been convenient on earth , for they were truly not unlike women when dressed and carefully shod and turbaned , and could haggle in the shops of women without embarrassment or curious explanations .
But most of them , unless lean or ill-favoured , were unclothed and packed in crates and drawn off in lumbering lorries by fabulous things .
Occasionally other beings were unloaded and crated ; some very like these semi-humans , some not so similar , and some not similar at all .
And she wondered if any of the poor stout black women of Parg were left to be unloaded and crated and shipped inland in those obnoxious drays .
When the galley landed at a greasy-looking quay of spongy rock a nightstallion horde of toad-things wiggled out of the hatches , and two of them seized Carter and dragged her ashore .
The smell and aspect of that city are beyond telling , and Carter held only scattered images of the tiled streets and black doorways and endless precipices of grey vertical walls without windows .
At length she was dragged within a low doorway and made to climb infinite steps in pitch blackness .
It was , apparently , all one to the toad-things whether it were light or dark .
The odour of the place was intolerable , and when Carter was locked into a chamber and left alone she scarcely had strength to crawl around and ascertain its form and dimensions .
It was circular , and about twenty feet across .
From then on time ceased to exist .
At intervals food was pushed in , but Carter would not touch it .
What her fate would be , she did not know ; but she felt that she was held for the coming of that frightful soul and messenger of infinity 's Other Gods , the crawling chaos Nyarlathotep .
Finally , after an unguessed span of hours or days , the great stone door swung wide again , and Carter was shoved down the stairs and out into the red-litten streets of that fearsome city .
It was night on the moon , and all through the town were stationed slaves bearing torches .
In a detestable square a sort of procession was formed ; ten of the toad-things and twenty-four almost human torch-bearers , eleven on either side , and one each before and behind .
Carter was placed in the middle of the line ; five toad-things ahead and five behind , and one almost-human torch-bearer on either side of her .
Certain of the toad-things produced disgustingly carven flutes of ivory and made loathsome sounds .
To that hellish piping the column advanced out of the tiled streets and into nighted plains of obscene fungi , soon commencing to climb one of the lower and more gradual hills that lay behind the city .
That on some frightful slope or blasphemous plateau the crawling chaos waited , Carter could not doubt ; and she wished that the suspense might soon be over .
The whining of those impious flutes was shocking , and she would have given worlds for some even half-normal sound ; but these toad-things had no voices , and the slaves did not talk .
Then through that star-specked darkness there did come a normal sound .
It rolled from the higher hills , and from all the jagged peaks around it was caught up and echoed in a swelling pandaemoniac chorus .
It was the midnight yell of the cat , and Carter knew at last that the old village folk were right when they made low guesses about the cryptical realms which are known only to cats , and to which the elders among cats repair by stealth nocturnally , springing from high housetops .
In the movies , whenever someone finds a door unlocked there are only two things it could be ; either no one is home or someone is dead .
His joke always makes Patty and me laugh when we watch a movie but now it creeps me out .
I slowly enter , calling out Patty’s name .
Everything looks in order although I notice an unpleasant smell .
I take a couple of hesitant steps into her living room , fear twisting around inside me .
Glancing around , I leave the front door open .
Examining the space , I reflect I have always hated the open floor plan of her apartment , mainly because the door opens straight into her living room area but right now , the openness gives me a feeling of security because I can clearly see that no one is here .
The kitchen and dining corner is to the left with the living ‘room’ to the right .
There is an alcove-like hallway across the room from the door .
The right side of the alcove leads to Patty’s bedroom and the left side leads to the bathroom .
Muddy footprints form a path from the former to the latter .
I slowly and cautiously walk over and stare down at the prints , wondering why Patty has not cleaned them up .
The smell is stronger .
I glance left into the bathroom which is a mess , mud splashed all over the place but it’s clearly empty .
Fingers of dread work their way inside me and replace the feeling of unease as I slowly turn and see the bedroom door is closed .
I convince my feet to move and deliberately advance on the door , the smell and my feeling of dread increasing with every step .
I reach out my hand to grab the doorknob , fear slicing into me as I touch the cold , muddy knob .
Alarm bells ring in my head , trying to tell me the mud is not mud .
The door swings open , pulling my hand and my body forward into the room .
Mud is everywhere , splashed on the walls , the floor .
Something drags my eyes to the left to discover the bed soaked in mud .
Patty sprawls across the bed , naked , dead eyes staring at nothing .
My mind screams at me .
It isn’t mud !
Something punches me in the stomach .
I fall to my knees and the room goes dim .
My vision clears and I see spilled coffee on a hardwood floor .
My left hand sits in the puddle of coffee while my right hand rests on the floor just inches away from a smear of blood .
I take a breath to steady myself and attempt to stand but my legs aren’t quite ready to work .
Something ... there is something I should do .
My mind seems strangely empty .
I try to think but the thoughts keep skittering away from me .
A muffled bang and someone curses and suddenly my mind snaps back into focus .
I have to call the cops .
I stand up and shake coffee off my left hand while using my right hand to pull out my cell and dial 911 .
Energy rushes through me now that I have something to do .
“Nine - one - one .
What is your emergency ? ” A woman’s voice calmly asks me .
I don’t know how much time passes as I stand there waiting for the cops to arrive , listening to the movers cursing and banging around in the hallway .
I should remember never to hire that moving company ; they are not very good at their jobs .
Odd thought at this moment .
My eyes involuntarily roam about the room and time stretches out .
I can feel my mind detach from my emotions and then my emotions pack up and leave .
Cold , cold invades me and walls me off from my feelings .
I stare at my feet and will them to take me out of the room but they do not move .
I stand rooted to the spot .
My eyes stare at the smear of blood on the floor to my right .
I force my eyes shut but they pop open again .
The moment my eyes open , they begin to move , never stopping in one place , shifting from horror to horror .
Patty’s bedroom does not look like a scene from a movie because the blood has dried to a dark brown or , in some places , black .
I guess they make the blood red in the movies to make it more horrifying but I find this worse .
The browns and blacks make Patty’s death more real to me .
Maybe because the colour conveys to me that Patty has been dead for hours for it to change .
Looking around the room I feel that whoever did this enjoyed themselves .
I sense a ... feeling of abandon in the blood splashed around the room .
The bed appears soaked in blood .
There is a wound in Patty’s left thigh .
My eyes move towards her face but jerk away before I reach her dead staring brown eyes .
I can not look at them again .
Instead , I notice her brown curly hair spread across the pillows looks arranged .
My eyes survey the room .
At first , my eyes move without any thought or motivation behind them until my mind clicks on .
I notice that everything appears to be in order , no sign of a fight .
My eyes stare at the blood on the walls and dresser and after looking at it for a while , I realize that there is very little blood just drops and spatters .
It reminds me of those splatter paintings , as if the killer painted the walls in his art of death .
A shudder runs through me with that thought .
“Police ! ” Someone calls out .
“In here , ” I shout back , relief flooding through me .
I don’t have to stand here alone any more .
The police have arrived .
There are people here who know and understand what needs to be done .
Someone will tell me what to do next .
Maybe they can make my feet move from this spot .
Footsteps approach the bedroom door while I stand still , waiting for help .
“Miss ? ” a gentle voice calls .
I turn and see a police uniform standing in the doorway .
A police uniform , that means something .
Just a moment ago , it had deep meaning for me .
What was it ?
After a moment , I realize there is a guy in that uniform holding out a hand to me .
That is it .
It means safety .
The wall that went up to protect me from the horror in the room is shaking as if hammers pound on it .
The blood , the smell hammers through the wall and nausea hits me .
I take a jerky step toward the cop .
Sounds like screaming off in the distance hammers through the wall and hits me with pain .
I stare at the uniform , safety there is safety .
I watch him holster his gun and move slowly towards me .
My vision blurs , I smile then feel something hot slide down my face .
He places his hands on my shoulders and I sob .
His arms go around me and I cry harder .
I feel , rather than see , him lead me out of the bedroom .
I lose a sense of time and space , again .
Chapter 2 I breathe deeply , wiping the tears off my face then stare at the hanky someone has given me .
I wonder if cops always carry hankies .
Is it something they are instructed to carry with them ?
Do they really take sensitivity training that prepares them with hankies and cups of coffee to hand to distraught victims ?
I lift my head and look around the room .
Officials are everywhere , snapping pictures , measuring things , and talking to each other .
The weight of a hand on my shoulder and I turn to look at the owner .
From the moment Ichabod laid his eyes upon these regions of delight , the peace of his mind was at an end , and his only study was how to gain the affections of the peerless daughter of Van Tassel .
Among these , the most formidable was a burly , roaring , roystering blade , of the name of Abraham , or , according to the Dutch abbreviation , Brom Van Brunt , the hero of the country round , which rang with his feats of strength and hardihood .
He was broad-shouldered and double-jointed , with short curly black hair , and a bluff but not unpleasant countenance , having a mingled air of fun and arrogance .
From his Herculean frame and great powers of limb he had received the nickname of BROM BONES , by which he was universally known .
He was famed for great knowledge and skill in horsemanship , being as dexterous on horseback as a Tartar .
He was foremost at all races and cock fights ; and , with the ascendancy which bodily strength always acquires in rustic life , was the umpire in all disputes , setting his hat on one side , and giving his decisions with an air and tone that admitted of no gainsay or appeal .
He was always ready for either a fight or a frolic ; but had more mischief than ill-will in his composition ; and with all his overbearing roughness , there was a strong dash of waggish good humor at bottom .
He had three or four boon companions , who regarded him as their model , and at the head of whom he scoured the country , attending every scene of feud or merriment for miles round .
In cold weather he was distinguished by a fur cap , surmounted with a flaunting fox 's tail ; and when the folks at a country gathering descried this well-known crest at a distance , whisking about among a squad of hard riders , they always stood by for a squall .
Sometimes his crew would be heard dashing along past the farmhouses at midnight , with whoop and halloo , like a troop of Don Cossacks ; and the old dames , startled out of their sleep , would listen for a moment till the hurry-scurry had clattered by , and then exclaim , `` Ay , there goes Brom Bones and his gang ! ''
The neighbors looked upon him with a mixture of awe , admiration , and good-will ; and , when any madcap prank or rustic brawl occurred in the vicinity , always shook their heads , and warranted Brom Bones was at the bottom of it .
This rantipole hero had for some time singled out the blooming Katrina for the object of his uncouth gallantries , and though his amorous toyings were something like the gentle caresses and endearments of a bear , yet it was whispered that she did not altogether discourage his hopes .
Such was the formidable rival with whom Ichabod Crane had to contend , and , considering all things , a stouter man than he would have shrunk from the competition , and a wiser man would have despaired .
To have taken the field openly against his rival would have been madness ; for he was not a man to be thwarted in his amours , any more than that stormy lover , Achilles .
Ichabod , therefore , made his advances in a quiet and gently insinuating manner .
Under cover of his character of singing-master , he made frequent visits at the farmhouse ; not that he had anything to apprehend from the meddlesome interference of parents , which is so often a stumbling-block in the path of lovers .
Balt Van Tassel was an easy indulgent soul ; he loved his daughter better even than his pipe , and , like a reasonable man and an excellent father , let her have her way in everything .
His notable little wife , too , had enough to do to attend to her housekeeping and manage her poultry ; for , as she sagely observed , ducks and geese are foolish things , and must be looked after , but girls can take care of themselves .
Thus , while the busy dame bustled about the house , or plied her spinning-wheel at one end of the piazza , honest Balt would sit smoking his evening pipe at the other , watching the achievements of a little wooden warrior , who , armed with a sword in each hand , was most valiantly fighting the wind on the pinnacle of the barn .
In the mean time , Ichabod would carry on his suit with the daughter by the side of the spring under the great elm , or sauntering along in the twilight , that hour so favorable to the lover 's eloquence .
I profess not to know how women 's hearts are wooed and won .
To me they have always been matters of riddle and admiration .
Some seem to have but one vulnerable point , or door of access ; while others have a thousand avenues , and may be captured in a thousand different ways .
It is a great triumph of skill to gain the former , but a still greater proof of generalship to maintain possession of the latter , for man must battle for his fortress at every door and window .
He who wins a thousand common hearts is therefore entitled to some renown ; but he who keeps undisputed sway over the heart of a coquette is indeed a hero .
Certain it is , this was not the case with the redoubtable Brom Bones ; and from the moment Ichabod Crane made his advances , the interests of the former evidently declined : his horse was no longer seen tied to the palings on Sunday nights , and a deadly feud gradually arose between him and the preceptor of Sleepy Hollow .
There was something extremely provoking in this obstinately pacific system ; it left Brom no alternative but to draw upon the funds of rustic waggery in his disposition , and to play off boorish practical jokes upon his rival .
Ichabod became the object of whimsical persecution to Bones and his gang of rough riders .
They harried his hitherto peaceful domains ; smoked out his singing school by stopping up the chimney ; broke into the schoolhouse at night , in spite of its formidable fastenings of withe and window stakes , and turned everything topsy-turvy , so that the poor schoolmaster began to think all the witches in the country held their meetings there .
But what was still more annoying , Brom took all opportunities of turning him into ridicule in presence of his mistress , and had a scoundrel dog whom he taught to whine in the most ludicrous manner , and introduced as a rival of Ichabod 's , to instruct her in psalmody .
In this way matters went on for some time , without producing any material effect on the relative situations of the contending powers .
On a fine autumnal afternoon , Ichabod , in pensive mood , sat enthroned on the lofty stool from whence he usually watched all the concerns of his little literary realm .
Apparently there had been some appalling act of justice recently inflicted , for his scholars were all busily intent upon their books , or slyly whispering behind them with one eye kept upon the master ; and a kind of buzzing stillness reigned throughout the schoolroom .
It was suddenly interrupted by the appearance of a negro in tow-cloth jacket and trowsers , a round-crowned fragment of a hat , like the cap of Mercury , and mounted on the back of a ragged , wild , half-broken colt , which he managed with a rope by way of halter .
All was now bustle and hubbub in the late quiet schoolroom .
The scholars were hurried through their lessons without stopping at trifles ; those who were nimble skipped over half with impunity , and those who were tardy had a smart application now and then in the rear , to quicken their speed or help them over a tall word .
Books were flung aside without being put away on the shelves , inkstands were overturned , benches thrown down , and the whole school was turned loose an hour before the usual time , bursting forth like a legion of young imps , yelping and racketing about the green in joy at their early emancipation .
The gallant Ichabod now spent at least an extra half hour at his toilet , brushing and furbishing up his best , and indeed only suit of rusty black , and arranging his locks by a bit of broken looking-glass that hung up in the schoolhouse .
That he might make his appearance before his mistress in the true style of a cavalier , he borrowed a horse from the farmer with whom he was domiciliated , a choleric old Dutchman of the name of Hans Van Ripper , and , thus gallantly mounted , issued forth like a knight- errant in quest of adventures .
But it is meet I should , in the true spirit of romantic story , give some account of the looks and equipments of my hero and his steed .
The animal he bestrode was a broken-down plow-horse , that had outlived almost everything but its viciousness .
He was gaunt and shagged , with a ewe neck , and a head like a hammer ; his rusty mane and tail were tangled and knotted with burs ; one eye had lost its pupil , and was glaring and spectral , but the other had the gleam of a genuine devil in it .
Still he must have had fire and mettle in his day , if we may judge from the name he bore of Gunpowder .
He had , in fact , been a favorite steed of his master 's , the choleric Van Ripper , who was a furious rider , and had infused , very probably , some of his own spirit into the animal ; for , old and broken-down as he looked , there was more of the lurking devil in him than in any young filly in the country .
Ichabod was a suitable figure for such a steed .
He rode with short stirrups , which brought his knees nearly up to the pommel of the saddle ; his sharp elbows stuck out like grasshoppers ' ; he carried his whip perpendicularly in his hand , like a sceptre , and as his horse jogged on , the motion of his arms was not unlike the flapping of a pair of wings .
A small wool hat rested on the top of his nose , for so his scanty strip of forehead might be called , and the skirts of his black coat fluttered out almost to the horses tail .
Such was the appearance of Ichabod and his steed as they shambled out of the gate of Hans Van Ripper , and it was altogether such an apparition as is seldom to be met with in broad daylight .
It was , as I have said , a fine autumnal day ; the sky was clear and serene , and nature wore that rich and golden livery which we always associate with the idea of abundance .
The forests had put on their sober brown and yellow , while some trees of the tenderer kind had been nipped by the frosts into brilliant dyes of orange , purple , and scarlet .
Streaming files of wild ducks began to make their appearance high in the air ; the bark of the squirrel might be heard from the groves of beech and hickory- nuts , and the pensive whistle of the quail at intervals from the neighboring stubble field .
The small birds were taking their farewell banquets .
In the fullness of their revelry , they fluttered , chirping and frolicking from bush to bush , and tree to tree , capricious from the very profusion and variety around them .
As Ichabod jogged slowly on his way , his eye , ever open to every symptom of culinary abundance , ranged with delight over the treasures of jolly autumn .
On all sides he beheld vast store of apples ; some hanging in oppressive opulence on the trees ; some gathered into baskets and barrels for the market ; others heaped up in rich piles for the cider-press .
Thus feeding his mind with many sweet thoughts and `` sugared suppositions , '' he journeyed along the sides of a range of hills which look out upon some of the goodliest scenes of the mighty Hudson .
The sun gradually wheeled his broad disk down in the west .
The wide bosom of the Tappan Zee lay motionless and glassy , excepting that here and there a gentle undulation waved and prolonged the blue shadow of the distant mountain .
A few amber clouds floated in the sky , without a breath of air to move them .
The horizon was of a fine golden tint , changing gradually into a pure apple green , and from that into the deep blue of the mid- heaven .
A slanting ray lingered on the woody crests of the precipices that overhung some parts of the river , giving greater depth to the dark gray and purple of their rocky sides .
A sloop was loitering in the distance , dropping slowly down with the tide , her sail hanging uselessly against the mast ; and as the reflection of the sky gleamed along the still water , it seemed as if the vessel was suspended in the air .
It was toward evening that Ichabod arrived at the castle of the Heer Van Tassel , which he found thronged with the pride and flower of the adjacent country .
Old farmers , a spare leathern- faced race , in homespun coats and breeches , blue stockings , huge shoes , and magnificent pewter buckles .
Their brisk , withered little dames , in close-crimped caps , long-waisted short gowns , homespun petticoats , with scissors and pincushions , and gay calico pockets hanging on the outside .
Buxom lasses , almost as antiquated as their mothers , excepting where a straw hat , a fine ribbon , or perhaps a white frock , gave symptoms of city innovation .
The sons , in short square-skirted coats , with rows of stupendous brass buttons , and their hair generally queued in the fashion of the times , especially if they could procure an eel-skin for the purpose , it being esteemed throughout the country as a potent nourisher and strengthener of the hair .
Brom Bones , however , was the hero of the scene , having come to the gathering on his favorite steed Daredevil , a creature , like himself , full of mettle and mischief , and which no one but himself could manage .
He was , in fact , noted for preferring vicious animals , given to all kinds of tricks which kept the rider in constant risk of his neck , for he held a tractable , well-broken horse as unworthy of a lad of spirit .
Fain would I pause to dwell upon the world of charms that burst upon the enraptured gaze of my hero , as he entered the state parlor of Van Tassel 's mansion .
Not those of the bevy of buxom lasses , with their luxurious display of red and white ; but the ample charms of a genuine Dutch country tea-table , in the sumptuous time of autumn .
Such heaped up platters of cakes of various and almost indescribable kinds , known only to experienced Dutch housewives !
There was the doughty doughnut , the tender oly koek , and the crisp and crumbling cruller ; sweet cakes and short cakes , ginger cakes and honey cakes , and the whole family of cakes .
I want breath and time to discuss this banquet as it deserves , and am too eager to get on with my story .
Happily , Ichabod Crane was not in so great a hurry as his historian , but did ample justice to every dainty .
He was a kind and thankful creature , whose heart dilated in proportion as his skin was filled with good cheer , and whose spirits rose with eating , as some men 's do with drink .
He could not help , too , rolling his large eyes round him as he ate , and chuckling with the possibility that he might one day be lord of all this scene of almost unimaginable luxury and splendor .
Then , he thought , how soon he 'd turn his back upon the old schoolhouse ; snap his fingers in the face of Hans Van Ripper , and every other niggardly patron , and kick any itinerant pedagogue out of doors that should dare to call him comrade !
Old Baltus Van Tassel moved about among his guests with a face dilated with content and good humor , round and jolly as the harvest moon .
His hospitable attentions were brief , but expressive , being confined to a shake of the hand , a slap on the shoulder , a loud laugh , and a pressing invitation to `` fall to , and help themselves . ''
And now the sound of the music from the common room , or hall , summoned to the dance .
The musician was an old gray-headed negro , who had been the itinerant orchestra of the neighborhood for more than half a century .
His instrument was as old and battered as himself .
The greater part of the time he scraped on two or three strings , accompanying every movement of the bow with a motion of the head ; bowing almost to the ground , and stamping with his foot whenever a fresh couple were to start .
Ichabod prided himself upon his dancing as much as upon his vocal powers .
Not a limb , not a fibre about him was idle ; and to have seen his loosely hung frame in full motion , and clattering about the room , you would have thought St. Vitus himself , that blessed patron of the dance , was figuring before you in person .
He was the admiration of all the negroes ; who , having gathered , of all ages and sizes , from the farm and the neighborhood , stood forming a pyramid of shining black faces at every door and window , gazing with delight at the scene , rolling their white eyeballs , and showing grinning rows of ivory from ear to ear .
How could the flogger of urchins be otherwise than animated and joyous ?
The lady of his heart was his partner in the dance , and smiling graciously in reply to all his amorous oglings ; while Brom Bones , sorely smitten with love and jealousy , sat brooding by himself in one corner .
When the dance was at an end , Ichabod was attracted to a knot of the sager folks , who , with Old Van Tassel , sat smoking at one end of the piazza , gossiping over former times , and drawing out long stories about the war .
He did not show…of course .
I suppose , I take after my mother’s side of the family .
I also suppose , you could say that suicide runs in our family the same way that cancer is hereditary in other families .
I have not attempted to remove myself from the world .
I can not promise that it will always be that way .
After all , it seems to strike us at random ages—whether we are twenty-one or ninety , it is probably an eventuality that I will have to face .
I wonder what will drive me to it .
Would it just be random like Alexis’s suicide ?
Sometimes I picture her waking up that day and looking into the mirror and just seeing something completely different than she had expected .
Like she sees someone looking back at her and she is not happy at all with it .
So she does the only thing she can to fix the issue—she hurries about the house looking for a length of cord ( Alexis always did things in a hurry ) and hangs herself .
If she could not be happy with the person that she was…what hope do I possibly have ?
I remember sitting outdoors in the large field of trees outside of our house after a few months after her death .
As I sat in the morning sun , thinking about nothing in particular—a single newly formed leaf fell from an ash tree overhead .
I watched the leaf as it spiraled down to the ground and finally rested against a fresh growth of spring grass .
It made me think of her .
The leaf that falls in spring—that is what Alexis was .
Unlike my grandfather who was a shriveled brown leaf that was loosened by a cold autumn wind , Alexis was a newly formed fresh emerald leaf that had a long existence ahead of her but fell to the earth anyway .
I can not tell if the comparison is poetic or banal .
I would like to think the former rather than the latter .
It is a Friday .
My mother , whom I live with , is out—she is always out .
I lie with my back against an old couch , my skinny knees resting against my stomach as I linger in a sunbeam .
I have heard that cats do this most of their days and I can see the appeal .
A filtered beam of light warms against my body .
I am wearing a short pair of cotton tight shorts and a comfortable slim fitting black shirt .
Feeling the hot sun against my body makes me feel closer to those I have lost .
Sometimes I wonder if every soul gets shot out into space and absorbed by the sun .
Although I hardly get out anymore , I find comfort in this spot .
My mind flashes to an image of Alexis dangling from her neck from the iron rod in the bathroom .
Even though I was not there to see it , my mind has reproduced an image so accurately that I can say for certainty that it was exactly how it looked right down to the color of the cord and the pitch of her lifeless sway .
This image constantly haunts me .
It torments me .
It leaves me feeling as though I can not continue existing .
I want to be one with the sun like the others .
However , I want to leave something behind—some unremarkable lasting thing that states that I once existed .
I suppose I could carve my name in a rock somewhere .
However , I do not feel that it will be enough .
I do not know why I have this urge to be remembered .
After all , Alexis , who had so much talent , did not need this comfort .
How did she find it so easily to leave ?
My mind is very random when it comes to thoughts .
I tend to trail off on different tangents for no particular reason and possess no rhyme to my disorder .
It is something that people either find fascinating or terribly frustrating , mostly the latter .
I often find it very easy to admit that I might just not be an all together likeable person .
Ultimately , I am alright with people disliking me .
I should be comforted that I have something that does not allow me to follow in her Alexis’s footsteps .
Without the need to leave something behind , to be remembered—I probably would not be here now .
I do not know how I would go about removing myself from the world of the living .
Everything that I have encountered or heard about in my life has either been too painful , messy , or slow .
I do not like the sight of my own blood .
I do not like the idea of being in pain .
When I was about eighteen or so I had my appendix removed forcibly by some doctors while I was drugged , asleep .
The following six months were the most painful and unpleasant memories I carry in my life .
There were days when I could not get to the bathroom without feeling as though the pain was too overwhelming .
Some days I wish I could have just given up .
I eventually recovered , however a small j-shaped scar now resides upon the flat smooth skin of my stomach—a lifelong reminder .
I live in a three story old Victorian style house .
It was the one thing my father left us with , well… that , and a rather large savings account .
He was a man who came from money and had purchased the home outright .
He spent his few years in its residence fixing up the place .
My mother says that the house was built sometime in the mid 1800’s .
It used to be a farmhouse , until at one point , someone came in and allowed the three acres the house is situated on to be reclaimed by nature .
Now , a tall forest of evergreens and oak and ash surround the house .
From my spot on the third floor , it is a daily occurrence to see some wild deer amongst the leaves or to see a rabbit wander out from the tall brush .
The house has hardwood floors throughout and intricately carved wooden doorways .
Cold brass handles adorn the old creaky doors and a spiraling staircase leads down the three floors .
The top floor , my room , is a small space with one large window that looks out and has an attic like ceiling .
My bed is a simple wooden frame , besides my small couch and a painted white dresser with a cracked mirror , it is the only real furniture I have in my room .
My room is sparsely decorated , it feels empty .
An old bronze lamp that I found in the basement sits on my dresser .
I do not have any posters or paintings or pictures up hanging around .
I find it more comforting to stare at the wooden grain of the wall—sometimes I see things .
I read that if you stare at a random pattern long enough that the mind tends to create images within the visual noise .
I have special spots that I have nicknamed ‘angry bear , ’ ‘man sailing , ’ and ‘headless woman having sex.’ To an outsider they would appear just natural formations in the wood ; however , to me… they mean something for I have spent time with them and they have shown me what I want to see .
The second floor of the house is mainly bedrooms and the special bathroom .
My Mother’s room—whose name is Susan by the way ( such an unremarkable name , I’ve wondered if it ever bothered her ) —exists on the second floor along with Alexis’s old bedroom .
Neither my mother nor I go in that room anymore .
The door stays shut .
The bathroom Alexis killed herself in remains in use , however , it has a fresh coat of sea-foam colored paint over its walls…I suppose it was an attempt by my mother to fix things—like sea-foam paint is some kind of emotional band-aid .
There is a third smaller room on the second floor .
This room was to be my father’s office .
It still has his leather brown office chair and desk set up , only after all these long years—it has become more of a storage room for boxes and bins .
I imagine the chair and desk are sad as they sit in there , buried beneath forgotten or unneeded possessions .
After all , like me and Alexis , they were both abandoned as well .
The first floor contains a kitchen that my father was kind enough to update with all the newest models of appliances ( newest eighteen years ago ) and new cabinets and marble countertops .
It also contains the dining room which we never eat at anymore ; we stopped eating there before I hit my teens .
The family room with the large l-shaped leather couch and shelves of books resides just beyond the door to the spiral staircase .
From the kitchen , a small alcove is situated where one can gain access to the basement .
I do not like the basement .
The basement is a dimly lit dingy expanse that seems to stretch on further than actual house itself .
It is a series of purposeless small rooms and hallways that almost form a small maze .
I suppose in early days of the house it was used for storage of items , maybe farm equipment and grain—now it just sits mostly empty .
There are some old things down there , a rusty silver bicycle , some broken wooden dining chairs , some old clay pots , and a pile of cobwebbed and dirty canning jars .
My mother works every weekday as an office assistant for an insurance agent from around seven in the morning until five at night .
She always pressures me to ride along with her into city—we live approximately fifteen miles from the nearest large city ( we are rather rural but not too far to be considered too rural . )
She wants me to see my therapist more .
I know she means well , but I could care less .
I often come up with excuses : “I am not read today .
I do not feel good .
She grabbed him and placed him on her hip .
“Come on , Jedster .
Let’s go wipe your boogies and get something to eat.” “Thanks .
Make sure nobody else waltzes in here.” She motioned toward my alarm clock .
“Hey , Wild One , it is time for you to get up for school .
Start going to bed earlier and you won‘t be so grumpy every morning.” I gritted my teeth .
“I’m not grumpy .
And quit calling me that.” My last name is “Wild” and my family thinks it’s amusing to call me The Wild One , because I was such a handful as a kid .
My mother frowned but left my room without another word .
As she closed the door , I could hear the chaos taking place in other areas of the house ; kids were chasing each other , someone was screaming about a lost toy , and a baby began to howl .
We live in Wolf Creek , a small town in Minnesota , and my mom runs a daycare in our house .
What was once a calm home , is now hectic zoo .
It was only Monday and I already yearned for the weekend .
I dragged myself out of bed , grabbed my favorite white Henley T-shirt and a pair of jean shorts , then snuck into the bathroom to take a shower .
Unfortunately , I have to share it with the daycare kids , so I have to be stealthy about it .
If they realize it’s me in the bathroom , they’ll do things to torture me , like wiggling their fingers under the door , jiggling the knob , or repeating “Wild” over and over , annoying the heck out of me .
Today was no exception .
“Enough , ” I warned , combing through my thick , dark hair .
I pulled it into a ponytail and looked closely at my reflection in the mirror .
Brown eyes , small turned up nose , and extremely dry lips .
I rummaged through the medicine cabinet and found some of my sister’s “plumping” lip gloss .
I applied it gingerly to my lips and then frowned .
Now they looked swollen , like I‘d been punched .
I tried wiping it off , but it didn’t help .
My eyes widened in shock as they continued to puff out .
Seriously , I thought , why would anyone intentionally do this to their lips ?
It was embarrassing and my lips were starting to sting .
I threw my hands up in defeat and stomped into the kitchen .
To my dismay , I noticed three other kids , sick with colds .
They all smiled at me , matching snot dripping from their noses .
“You have got to be kidding .
What is it with everyone dropping off their kids here when they’re sick ?
Shouldn’t they be home taking care of them ? ” “I know , nothing I can do about it unless they have fevers , ” mom replied wearily as she grabbed several tissues and began wiping noses .
“Everyone seems to be getting sick with this horrible cold .
Some parents even dropped off their kids just so they could go back home and rest.” “Figures , ” I mumbled .
I pulled out my cell phone to check my messages when , Daniel , a five-year-old boy who pretends he’s my shadow , sneezed all over it .
I turned to my mom in horror , who winced and quickly handed me an antibacterial wipe .
“Daniel , why don’t you go and draw Cassie a nice picture ? ” she said , guiding him away from me .
Frantic to escape , I grabbed a cereal bar and my truck keys .
“I’ll eat this at school .
I‘ve got a karate class tonight.” My mom nodded and then wrinkled her nose .
“Megan ?
Do you have a poopy diaper ? ” I turned and fled the kitchen before I could smell the answer .
Just then my dad shuffled by in his robe on the way to his “Man Cave” in the lower level of our home .
He calls it his sanctuary from “Daycare Hell.” Right now he looked like he’d just stepped out of Hell himself , with the dark circles under his eyes and hair that stuck up in every direction .
“Hi , dad , ” I said .
“Let me guess , you were up late again blasting zombies ? ” He smiled sheepishly .
“Heh .
I actually finished the game.” My dad was addicted to video games .
Before I was born , he once spent thirty-six hours straight playing Everguild , a very addictive Internet game , surviving only on caffeine and buttery pretzels .
When my mom became pregnant , she lost her patience with his harmless addiction and brought a group of his friends together for an “Everguild Intervention.” Now he’s only allowed to play games on his Wii or PlayStation , which he has only a slightly better handle on .
“Do you have to work today ? ” I asked him .
My dad sells cars for a living , which isn’t particularly his dream job .
Unfortunately it’s something he’s really good at , so although he grumbles about it endlessly , he never changes it .
“Not until this afternoon .
You ready to try out my new Beretta ? ” he asked , his face lighting up .
His other addiction has to do with guns .
Almost every Saturday since I turned sixteen , has been spent at the gun range with my father and grandfather .
Both avid collectors , they own about thirty different guns between the two of them .
When I began showing an interest last year , they were both delighted and started teaching me everything they could about guns .
Now my aim is almost as good as my dad’s .
“Sorry , dad , I can’t make it to the gun range for the next couple of weeks .
I have to study for final exams , ” I answered .
“Plus , prom’s coming up .
I’m just too busy.” Folding his arms , he gave me a stern look .
“That’s right .
You’re going with that Scott kid , aren’t you ? ” he asked .
“Remember , no pre-prom parties , no hotels , and definitely no alcohol.” I snorted .
“Hello ?
Does that really sound like me ?
And you do realize that Scott and I are just friends ?
I‘ve told you this so many times.” His eyes softened .
“Good , keep it that way.” “Well , I’m just lucky he’s going with me .
I didn’t go last year and probably would have skipped the senior prom as well if he hadn‘t volunteered to take me.” “Are you kidding me ?
He’s the lucky one ! ” I bit back a smile .
My dad’s having a difficult time with the idea of me dating anyone , which he shouldn’t ; my love life is as dead as the zombies in his games .
Scott and I are only friends , but it always seems to slip his mind .
The last time I went out with Scott , my dad had insisted on chatting with him before we left for the movie theater , all while cleaning three of his guns .
My dad found it amusing ; I was horrified .
But Scott thought my dad’s guns were “awesome” and missed the entire point .
“Wait , Cassie ! ” hollered my mom from the top of the stairs .
My stomach clenched when I saw she was holding a dirty diaper .
I swear there was steam radiating from the putrid bundle .
“What ? ” She narrowed her eyes .
“What’s wrong with your lips ? ” I released a deep sigh .
“Allie’s plumping lip gloss.” She bit the side of her lip .
“Oh .
Well they’ll probably shrink down soon .
Anyway , could you please pick up Allie from her dance class tonight ? ” I groaned .
“Please ?
You‘re going to karate anyway , just swing by on your way home.” “Okay , fine.” “Thank you , honey.” I nodded then sprinted out the front door before she tried to volunteer me for anything else .
Allie’s my twelve-year-old sister , and since my parents pitched in to help me purchase my truck last year , I’m her personal chauffeur .
I didn’t mind at first , but since she’s started middle school , her social life is busier than mine .
Sometimes I have to fit my plans into her schedule .
Glancing across the cul-de-sac , I noticed Charlie following Mr. Hendrickson to his mailbox .
We waved at each other and Charlie stared at me instead of blasting me with his usual obnoxious barking .
like he normally does .
I hopped into my truck , a red ‘98 Chevy S10 , which has seen much better days , and prayed silently that it wouldn’t give me problems ; it’s been finicky about starting recently and I really don’t have time to get it checked out ; especially with prom coming up .
When it turned over right away , I sighed with relief and drove over to my friend Paige’s house .
“Hi .
I think he would be better on a lower floor , but we are so full now that he can not be moved .
He is incoherent much of the time , and frequently goes into hysterics , during which he attempts to dig through the floor .
On April the second , the boy attacked me , and I was re-assigned on my request by the administration .
Dr. Daniel Bigelow ( Resigned ) : I can’t stand the child .
He unnerves me more than any other patient I have ever had , though I have been told I had more success with him than my predecessor , Dr. Kuttner .
Kuttner described him as being incoherent , but to me everything he says is perfectly clear , just nonsensical – what is this Seerayth Bowlo he talks about ?
I can not for the life of me surmise as to how he got the thought into his head that the winds will carry him to this place .
Did he have some traumatic event in his past ?
If he had living relatives we might chance to figure this out , but alas , he has none .
No matter what I do to help him , he remains unchanged .
I have tried everything .
I chose , on April the 29th , to resign from my post at the Institution and seek work somewhere that does not keep me working on hopeless cases .
Dr. Matthias Hemmell ( Dead ) : The boy has issues – his fear of the wind has no known source .
He tells me that the voices speak to him , and sometimes show him what they want to do to him .
So far he has not been able to describe what it is the winds want with him , other than to take him to some dreadful place .
He also seems to have an absurd fascination with blood , and has on several occasions bitten himself until he bleeds , so that he may draw strange symbols on the floor with his own life-force .
NOTE : Dr. Hemmell was killed in a car accident on March the 28th .
Dr. Herbert Weighton ( Resigned ) : I lasted longer than all three of my predecessors , by some miracle from above .
I doubted at first their words , but I see now that they told no lies ; he writes on the floor in his own blood , drawing strange symbols that I can not hope to recreate in writing , so complex were they .
He appears to believe that the symbols will protect him when the winds came to drag him off to Seerayth Bolow .
I have done some research , and concluded that the name he mentions sounds vaguely Gaelic .
Could it possibly be spelled Cireadh Bolough ?
He will not answer .
Halfway through my tenure , he withdrew into total silence , and would not speak .
A week later , a terrible windstorm blew through the county , and the boy kept the entire building awake with screams of terror .
I was forced to stand in front of the window in order to calm him even in the slightest .
I could not take it anymore , and on July the sixth , I resigned from my post , giving the Institution my advice that the child be dropped , as he is not able to benefit from our care .
Dr. Xavier Donalos ( Dead ) : I requested that Darien’s window be boarded shut and the walls of his room padded to be soundproof .
Somehow the Institution was able to pull out funds for the former , but not for the latter .
The boarded window seemed to help him greatly , though he still felt the urge to paint the wood with his own blood .
My blood wouldn’t do ; I offered once to do it for him , and he violently resisted my suggestion , attacking me physically .
He accused me of being in league with the winds .
NOTE : Dr. Xavier Donalos was killed in a fatal fall down the stairs on September the 2nd as he went to hand in his resignation after Darien assaulted him .
Dr. Matthew Brighton ( Still Employed ) : The child is very seriously disturbed .
I , at my own expense , did what my late predecessor tried to do , and padded the walls of his room so as to make them soundproof , in order that he not hear the wind .
I swear that the boy must be getting into my mind , for I noticed that shortly after I padded his room that the winds in the area picked up frightfully .
Undoubtedly it is just my nerves .
The boy claims that the winds can and still will reach him , and that I have only delayed them .
When I asked him why the winds wanted to take him , he responded with a physical attack .
I was re-assigned immediately on December the 18th .
Dr. Benjamin Nevai ( Resigned ) : Young Darien has gone through quite an astonishing array of doctors .
I fear what may happen to me if I stay on with him for too long ; I think I shall resign before anything too terrible happens .
He continues drawing sigils in blood all over his room , and tells me how the winds will rise to sweep him away , towards that Cireadh Bolough place he babbles about .
I asked him what would happen to him there , and instead of assaulting me physically like I had thought he would , he told me that they would strip him of his soul and send it spiraling upwards to the stars where their light would burn it forever .
I think the boy is driving me mad as well , for I too have begun to hear voices upon the wind .
I have resigned from my post on the basis of my own apparent failing mental health on January the 14th .
And so , on January the 15th , I was to pick up where Nevai had left off .
I immersed myself with the writings of my predecessors , and set about devising a plan of attack .
It seemed that the one fatal flaw all of the boy’s previous doctors save Nevai had possessed was an inability to gain the boy’s trust .
I thought that if perhaps I pretended to see what Darien himself saw upon the winds , I might be able to present myself to him as a kindred spirit , and so gain insight into his very soul in order that I be able to reach out to him , and help drag him out of the abyss of terror that he had fallen so deeply into .
III I first visited him on that morning the 15th , at precisely eight o’clock .
The door to his room was closed and locked , as per standard Institute policy .
In my left arm I carried a simple writing pad , and in the fingers of that hand I tightly gripped a freshly sharpened pencil .
I raised my right arm and closed my fingers into a fist , drawing back my wrist to knock .
I hesitated a moment , fearing that if I failed my career would be doomed – or that perhaps something far worse would happen to me .
Pushing those thoughts aside , I gently tapped upon the door to his private room with my knuckles .
For a few moments there was no response , and so I rapped upon the door again , with more force this time .
At this second knocking , a timid voice reached my ears , asking me who it was .
I responded by saying that I was his new friend , after a moment of hesitation as I deliberated on how to describe myself to him .
The relationship that I wished to develop with Darien was not that of a patient and doctor , but rather that of a pair of close friends .
“You mean you’re my new doctor ? ” The voice was slightly bolder now , and I winced at the words I heard it speak , forcing me to throw out the idea of a relationship of friends .
“Yes , if you wish to think of me in that way .
May I come in ? ” “Can I stop you ? ” I jotted down a note on my pad – Remarkably quick-witted .
I chose to ignore his comment , and warned him of my imminent arrival .
I removed my key-ring from my pocket and inserted the proper key into the keyhole .
I gently pushed the door open , just enough for me to enter the room , and then locked it behind me .
It was only then that I looked upon the room in which I stood , that I had read so much about , and yet had never seen before with my own eyes .
The first thing to catch my eye was the window – or the space where a window should be .
Like Dr. Donalos had mentioned in his reports , the window was boarded up completely by seven thick wooden boards positioned horizontally across said window , completely blocking any view of the outdoors .
The walls of the room would have been a bright white , like the rest of the Institution , had not they been covered with light blue padding .
The padding was completely bare , and devoid of any features other than the crevices indicating where one pad ended and another began .
To my right , in the corner farthest from the window , was Darien’s cot .
It was a standard cot ; about two feet off of the ground , with uniform white sheets , pillow , and comforter atop it , all made very neatly .
The edges around the rectangular outline of the cot were raised in order to prevent distraught patients from too easily falling onto the hard floor .
I wondered for a moment , as Doctor Kuttner claimed to have moved the boy’s bed to the ground .
Perhaps a later doctor had failed to mention the fact that they raised it again , for whatever reason .
If they had , it did not appear as if Darien had slept upon it at all .
Upon turning my attention to the floor , I must confess that my breath caught in my throat and I thought I might faint .
While I had read about the strange designs that Darien drew upon the floor in his own blood , it was not until that moment that I understood what Dr. Weighton had meant when he said that he had no hopes of transcribing the symbols before him .
It is hard now to describe them ; they were a vast collection of swirls , filling up almost all of the floor-space in the room , and were most concentrated in the areas closest to the window .
I could make out no other discernible patterns to them other than a relatively clear space under his bed ( though it is important to note here that swirls of blood surrounded the entirety of his cot ) and the door , where I now stood .
Just like the time when I had first seen young Darien , the boy himself was the last thing I noticed .
He was rather small – by this time he was thirteen years of age – and white as bone .
His entire body trembled slightly , and he looked at me with an odd mixture of excitement , intelligence , and fear .
He was kneeling on the floor near his bed , his hands clasped together in his lap .
I smiled down at him , ignoring the bloodstained floor as I walked towards him , arm extended .
He did not rise or extend his own arm in return , but merely stared at mine .
After a moment , I withdrew my offered hand , and squatted down on the floor in front of him .
“May I call you Darien ? ” He shrugged and gazed down at the floor .
I repeated my question , and he shrugged again .
Sighing , I marked down another note on my pad : Largely unresponsive .
“You can call me Dr. Jueger.” Moments after pronouncing this statement , I took it back .
“Or if you prefer , you may call me Jonathan.” He did not respond at all to this , not even with a shrug .
“I’m going to ask you a few simple questions now , if that’s all right with you.” Again , he ignored me completely .
Though I was rather put off , I hid my emotions and I began to question him , mostly about his past and his family .
I say “began” here because I did not meet with any success at all .
I asked him my first question , did his mother treat him well , dozens of times , over and over again , until it became a mantra .
He did not react to me at all , and I underlined in my notes the word unresponsive .
As time passed , Darien began to shake ever more violently , until I ventured to touch him lightly on the shoulder , and ceased my questioning to inquire as to what was the matter .
The instant my fingers touched the thin fabric of the gown he was wearing , his head jerked up and he stared directly into my eyes .
`` He might as well be . ''
`` Please , come down for dinner , '' she said .
But I never went .
By the time I got hungry enough to pause the game and venture into the kitchen , my parents were already in bed .
I ate a leftover meatloaf sandwich and went back up to my room .
I played Galaxy Wars until I passed out with the controller still in my hand .
The next morning there was a note on the refrigerator from Mom telling me that she and Dad had gone shopping for the day .
That was nothing unusual .
They often used their Saturdays to `` window shop '' as my Mom called it .
Basically walk around the mall and look at things that they wanted , and could afford to get , but could n't stand to pay the asking price for .
Most Saturdays they were back by early afternoon and Dad would be back in his office , not to be seen until dinner .
Once or twice they stayed out into the evening , but Mom had always called if they would n't be home until after dark .
I suppose a better son might have been concerned to come out of his room to find a dark and empty house .
Dinner had n't been cooked , but there were still leftovers in the fridge , so I grabbed up an armful of plastic containers and soda cans and went back up to my room .
I did n't even look outside to see if their car was back in the driveway .
Nadine begins to snivel again and she turns her head to look up at her mother .
`` Mommy . ''
Her voice is a high pitched quiver .
`` I 'm really hungry . ''
Her mother leans her head down close and whispers .
`` I know , baby .
We 'll try to find something at the next stop . ''
I am pretty sure that by that she meant that the two of them would get off the bus , search for the nearest restaurant , and take a walk out back .
Nadine 's mother would probably hop into the dumpster and search for anything that was salvageable enough to make her daughter 's hunger go away .
I wish I could say that my first thought is selfless and noble , but it is n't .
My first thought is that they would get back on the bus and smell worse than they do now .
My second thought is of my uncle .
Maybe he was too cheap to give to someone in need , to make their life a little easier , but I 'm not .
I ate before I got on the bus , and was wise enough to pack a “survival kit.” Granted , the bulk of it consists of my laptop , my hand-held game system , a few extra games , and a tangle of power cords , but there are also two candy bars in there .
I reach under the seat , take them from my book bag and lean over the aisle toward Nadine .
`` Hey , '' I whisper and tap her on the leg .
She turns to look at me .
Her cheeks are pink and clean where she has used her shirt sleeve and tears to scrub the grime away .
The rest of her face is just as filthy as the rest of her , though .
I hold the candy bars out to her .
She smiles , but then stops to look up at her mother for permission to take them .
Her mother nods and Nadine grabs the candy from my hand .
She rips the wrapper from one with her teeth almost immediately .
`` Thank you , '' her mother says .
`` Yeah , Thanks , '' Nadine says with her mouth full of chocolate .
A half of a slimy peanut rolls out of her mouth as she says it .
`` You 're welcome . ''
I lean back and check my cell phone .
For now , I have enough service to play some multi-player games , but that might not last .
I still have several hours of bus ride ahead of me , so I plug in my ear buds and load up the zombie-shooter that I downloaded the last time I had service .
Hopefully I can waste the rest of the ride killing the undead , assuming I continue having service or the battery does n't run out .
Chapter 2 It turns out that I have plenty of battery to last the rest of the trip , but I beat the game way before we pull into the station in L.A .
I wait for everyone else to get off before I walk down the aisle to the door .
It takes a while for the older people to shuffle off the bus , but I am in no hurry .
I have no idea where I will be going from here .
The “briefing” I was given over the phone had n't gone any further than getting on the bus to L.A .
I am pretty sure that my uncle will be here to meet me , but I have no idea what he even looks like .
I grab my other bag from the compartment underneath the bus , and walk into the station .
I have no problems finding my ride .
I would have noticed the man waiting for me even if he had n't been holding a sign with “B .
Prescott” written on it .
Everyone in the station looked at the huge man standing in the middle of the lobby .
He is , by far , the largest human being I have ever seen .
Freakishly large , with proportions that would only look rational on a comic book hero and a square face to match .
I hesitantly walk up to him .
`` Uncle Dylan ? ''
`` Nyet .
I am Gregory , '' he says with a heavy accent .
I assume it 's Russian , but I 'm not entirely sure .
`` You have all of your things ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Without saying another word he turns and walks away .
It takes me a moment to decide whether I want to follow him or not , and by the time I do I have to run through the crowd to catch up with him .
He does n't seem overly concerned whether I do or not .
He never looks back even when we reach the black BMW that is parked right at the curb .
He walks around the front of the car and gets in .
Again , I hesitate .
Gregory rolls the passenger window down , and leans over to look at me .
`` You need the trunk ? ''
`` Nah , I 'll just throw it in the back seat . ''
I open the back door and throw my duffel bag and backpack on the floor board .
`` You sit back there , too , '' he says .
`` Okay , sure . ''
Not that I really want to sit in the front with the Hulk , as a matter of fact I would prefer not to , but maybe because he made it so clear that I am not welcome up there , I kind of get offended .
I get in the back with my luggage and close the door just as Gregory starts to pull away from the curb .
We ride in silence until the landscape outside begins to change and the number of buildings begins to be fewer and they are spreading farther apart .
`` Where are we going ? ''
I ask him .
`` To Uncle 's '' '' He does n't live in L.A. ? ''
`` Nyet .
One hour . ''
`` He lives an hour away ? ''
`` Da . ''
Gregory reaches forward and turns on the radio , obviously not wanting to talk to me at all .
Some political talk show , it sounds like , but I do n't feel like listening for long enough to try to decipher what they are talking about .
So I once again pull out my phone .
The last game I had downloaded had been a waste of $ 3 , but at least it had passed the time .
I am just about to press the download button a new one when the two old guys Gregory is listening to are interrupted by the news .
I 'm not usually one to care much about the news , but since my parents have gone missing I try to listen when I hear it , hoping that I will hear a report that they have been found so I can go home .
I got half of what I hoped for .
... The search ends for novelist John Prescott .
Prescott and his wife were reported missing three days ago by Prescott 's agent , Walter Knox .
Authorities now say that the false report was due to a communication error between Knox and Prescott 's personal assistant .
Sources close to the author confirm that John and Gina Prescott are out of the country , but they are safe and wish to thank everyone for their concern .
In other news ... To say that I am thrilled is a definite understatement .
No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a letter .
One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record , and I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage .
Adieu , my dear Marion .
Be assured that for my own sake , as well as yours , I will not rashly encounter danger .
I will be cool , persevering , and prudent .
But success SHALL crown my endeavours .
Wherefore not ?
Thus far I have gone , tracing a secure way over the pathless seas , the very stars themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph .
Why not still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element ?
What can stop the determined heart and resolved will of woman ?
My swelling heart involuntarily pours itself out thus .
But must finish .
Heaven bless my beloved brother !
R.W .
Letter 4 To Saville , England August 5th , 17- So strange an accident has happened to us that I can not forbear recording it , although it is very probable that you will see me before these papers can come into your possession .
Last Monday ( July 31st ) we were nearly surrounded by ice , which closed in the ship on all sides , scarcely leaving his the sea-room in which he floated .
Our situation was somewhat dangerous , especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog .
We accordingly lay to , hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather .
About two o'clock the mist cleared away , and we beheld , stretched out in every direction , vast and irregular plains of ice , which seemed to have no end .
Some of my comrades groaned , and my own mind began to grow watchful with anxious thoughts , when a strange sight suddenly attracted our attention and diverted our solicitude from our own situation .
We perceived a low carriage , fixed on a sledge and drawn by dogs , pass on towards the north , at the distance of half a mile ; a being which had the shape of a woman , but apparently of gigantic stature , sat in the sledge and guided the dogs .
We watched the rapid progress of the traveller with our telescopes until she was lost among the distant inequalities of the ice .
This appearance excited our unqualified wonder .
We were , as we believed , many hundred miles from any land ; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not , in reality , so distant as we had supposed .
Shut in , however , by ice , it was impossible to follow her track , which we had observed with the greatest attention .
About two hours after this occurrence we heard the ground sea , and before night the ice broke and freed our ship .
We , however , lay to until the morning , fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the ice .
I profited of this time to rest for a few hours .
In the morning , however , as soon as it was light , I went upon deck and found all the sailors busy on one side of the vessel , apparently talking to someone in the sea .
It was , in fact , a sledge , like that we had seen before , which had drifted towards us in the night on a large fragment of ice .
Only one dog remained alive ; but there was a human being within it whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel .
She was not , as the other traveller seemed to be , a savage inhabitant of some undiscovered island , but a European .
When I appeared on deck the mistress said , 'Here is our captain , and she will not allow you to perish on the open sea . '
On perceiving me , the stranger addressed me in English , although with a foreign accent .
'Before I come on board your vessel , ' said she , 'will you have the kindness to inform me whither you are bound ? '
You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a question addressed to me from a woman on the brink of destruction and to whom I should have supposed that my vessel would have been a resource which she would not have exchanged for the most precious wealth the earth can afford .
I replied , however , that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the northern pole .
Upon hearing this she appeared satisfied and consented to come on board .
Good God !
Marion , if you had seen the woman who thus capitulated for her safety , your surprise would have been boundless .
Her limbs were nearly frozen , and her body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and suffering .
I never saw a woman in so wretched a condition .
We attempted to carry her into the cabin , but as soon as she had quitted the fresh air she fainted .
We accordingly brought her back to the deck and restored her to animation by rubbing her with brandy and forcing her to swallow a small quantity .
As soon as she showed signs of life we wrapped her up in blankets and placed her near the chimney of the kitchen stove .
By slow degrees she recovered and ate a little soup , which restored her wonderfully .
Two days passed in this manner before she was able to speak , and I often feared that her sufferings had deprived her of understanding .
When she had in some measure recovered , I removed her to my own cabin and attended on her as much as my duty would permit .
I never saw a more interesting creature : her eyes have generally an expression of wildness , and even madness , but there are moments when , if anyone performs an act of kindness towards her or does her the most trifling service , her whole countenance is lighted up , as it were , with a beam of benevolence and sweetness that I never saw equalled .
But she is generally melancholy and despairing , and sometimes she gnashes her teeth , as if impatient of the weight of woes that oppresses her .
When my guest was a little recovered I had great trouble to keep off the women , who wished to ask her a thousand questions ; but I would not allow her to be tormented by their idle curiosity , in a state of body and mind whose restoration evidently depended upon entire repose .
Once , however , the lieutenant asked why she had come so far upon the ice in so strange a vehicle .
Her countenance instantly assumed an aspect of the deepest gloom , and she replied , 'To seek one who fled from me . '
'And did the woman whom you pursued travel in the same fashion ? '
'Yes . '
'Then I fancy we have seen her , for the day before we picked you up we saw some dogs drawing a sledge , with a woman in it , across the ice . '
This aroused the stranger 's attention , and she asked a multitude of questions concerning the route which the demon , as she called her , had pursued .
Soon after , when she was alone with me , she said , 'I have , doubtless , excited your curiosity , as well as that of these good people ; but you are too considerate to make inquiries . '
'Certainly ; it would indeed be very impertinent and inhuman in me to trouble you with any inquisitiveness of mine . '
'And yet you rescued me from a strange and perilous situation ; you have benevolently restored me to life . '
Soon after this she inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the ice had destroyed the other sledge .
I replied that I could not answer with any degree of certainty , for the ice had not broken until near midnight , and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safety before that time ; but of this I could not judge .
From this time a new spirit of life animated the decaying frame of the stranger .
She manifested the greatest eagerness to be upon deck to watch for the sledge which had before appeared ; but I have persuaded her to remain in the cabin , for she is far too weak to sustain the rawness of the atmosphere .
I have promised that someone should watch for her and give her instant notice if any new object should appear in sight .
Such is my journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the present day .
The stranger has gradually improved in health but is very silent and appears uneasy when anyone except myself enters her cabin .
Yet her manners are so conciliating and gentle that the sailors are all interested in her , although they have had very little communication with her .
For my own part , I begin to love her as a sister , and her constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and compassion .
She must have been a noble creature in her better days , being even now in wreck so attractive and amiable .
I said in one of my letters , my dear Marion , that I should find no friend on the wide ocean ; yet I have found a woman who , before her spirit had been broken by misery , I should have been happy to have possessed as the sister of my heart .
I shall continue my journal concerning the stranger at intervals , should I have any fresh incidents to record .
August 13th , 17- My affection for my guest increases every day .
She excites at once my admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree .
How can I see so noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief ?
She is so gentle , yet so wise ; her mind is so cultivated , and when she speaks , although her words are culled with the choicest art , yet they flow with rapidity and unparalleled eloquence .
She is now much recovered from her illness and is continually on the deck , apparently watching for the sledge that preceded her own .
Yet , although unhappy , she is not so utterly occupied by her own misery but that she interests herself deeply in the projects of others .
She has frequently conversed with me on mine , which I have communicated to her without disguise .
She entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my eventual success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken to secure it .
I was easily led by the sympathy which she evinced to use the language of my heart , to give utterance to the burning ardour of my soul and to say , with all the fervour that warmed me , how gladly I would sacrifice my fortune , my existence , my every hope , to the furtherance of my enterprise .
One woman 's life or death were but a small price to pay for the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought , for the dominion I should acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of our race .
As I spoke , a dark gloom spread over my listener 's countenance .
At first I perceived that she tried to suppress her emotion ; she placed her hands before her eyes , and my voice quivered and failed me as I beheld tears trickle fast from between her fingers ; a groan burst from her heaving breast .
I paused ; at length she spoke , in broken accents : 'Unhappy woman !
Do you share my madness ?
Have you drunk also of the intoxicating draught ?
Hear me ; let me reveal my tale , and you will dash the cup from your lips ! '
Such words , you may imagine , strongly excited my curiosity ; but the paroxysm of grief that had seized the stranger overcame her weakened powers , and many hours of repose and tranquil conversation were necessary to restore her composure .
Having conquered the violence of her feelings , she appeared to despise herself for being the slave of passion ; and quelling the dark tyranny of despair , she led me again to converse concerning myself personally .
She asked me the history of my earlier years .
The tale was quickly told , but it awakened various trains of reflection .
I spoke of my desire of finding a friend , of my thirst for a more intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than had ever fallen to my lot , and expressed my conviction that a woman could boast of little happiness who did not enjoy this blessing .
'I agree with you , ' replied the stranger ; 'we are unfashioned creatures , but half made up , if one wiser , better , dearer than ourselves -- such a friend ought to be -- do not lend her aid to perfectionate our weak and faulty natures .
I once had a friend , the most noble of human creatures , and am entitled , therefore , to judge respecting friendship .
You have hope , and the world before you , and have no cause for despair .
But I -- I have lost everything and can not begin life anew . '
As she said this her countenance became expressive of a calm , settled grief that touched me to the heart .
But she was silent and presently retired to her cabin .
Even broken in spirit as she is , no one can feel more deeply than she does the beauties of nature .
So what do you think ? ” Walter knew what to think .
It was there all along .
The look in her eyes .
The hair and clothes all proper .
Her supple , little round face .
She was in training , honing her skills .
Walter could help her .
He might even be able to save her from herself .
“Sure , come on in , ” he offered .
“I’m Walter .
Put the bag down on the table over there.” He pointed into the small kitchen on the other side of the living room .
Following Camilla from behind , he tucked away the razor into his recliner next to the remote .
“Gracias , Walter .
Habla Espanol ? ” Camilla asked politely .
“No , I don’t.” “Yeah , didn’t think so .
So which one is your favorite ? ” She started pulling the cookies out and setting the different varieties on the table .
“Oh , I don’t know .
Which is yours ? ” Walter asked intending to keep her talking for a while .
“I absolutely love the Caramel deLites .
They’re really good with milk .
Do you eat cookies with milk ?
It’s really good.” “I never had cookies and milk .
Maybe I should buy a box and you could share them with me.” Walter hesitated and then asked carefully , “Would anyone miss you if you didn’t get home right away ? ” He pulled a wallet from his workman trousers and revealed a small stack of bills , handing her a twenty .
“Oh , I think I could stay for a while .
My mamá doesn’t get home until five-thirty .
Where’s the clock ? ” There wasn’t one in sight and the windows were covered in heavy curtains so Camilla couldn’t see the sun in the sky .
“That’s good .
I’ll make sure you get home by five , ” Walter assured her as he got out some paper plates and a half-gallon of milk from the fridge .
Camilla poured herself some milk .
Walter didn’t , but he did take a handful of the cookies .
They talked mostly about school .
She attended PS 57 , which Walter found amusing .
Did she have a lot of friends ?
Of course she did .
They bought a lot of her cookies , too .
Did she have a boyfriend ?
Camilla said eight-year olds shouldn’t have boyfriends .
Although she typically didn’t get into trouble , she did admit to being suspended once .
It disappointed Walter to hear that her favorite classes were art , music and gym .
“What about science ?
That was my favorite , ” said Walter “You didn’t dunk your cookies in milk , ” Camilla noted as she ate the last of her soggy cookies .
“ Wan na use mine ? ” She leaned across the table offering a half finished glass .
Walter disregarded her and her milk polluted with cookie crumbs .
He had other interests in mind .
Other ideas he would like to try .
“I think we should do an experiment , ” he said with a smile .
This was the first time Walter smiled and Camilla got queasy seeing the rot in his teeth .
She felt comfortable in the apartment initially , especially since it had the same familiar layout as her own apartment .
The front door opened into a living room which led straight into the kitchen .
She knew that from the opposite end of the living room there was a hallway which led to the bathroom and bedrooms .
Yet , it wasn’t until now that she took notice to the rumblings in the back of her mind .
Looking past the stacks of dirty dishes and newspapers on the counters , she noticed an absence of a phone , photographs and knick-knacks .
It didn’t smell like her kitchen either .
The typical arroz con pollo simmering in a pot .
Instead , a filthiness hung in the stale air which she thought was called mold or mildew .
The cookies didn’t taste good here and actually , neither did the milk .
Dark curtains , which she imagined were meant to block out the world now felt like they were meant to keep her in .
Camilla’s breathing slowed to a whisper while blood rushed through her body ; a pulse caught beating in her throat .
Feeling very small , Camilla slouched down in her chair as if she’d disappear .
“I don’t like science or experiments .
I think you should pay me so I can go home .
I know it’s getting late.” There was an uneven tone in her voice as if she couldn’t balance her genuine moxie with her growing anxiety .
“First the experiment .
Then you go home.” Walter had been standing near the doorway to the kitchen throughout their visit but now he purposefully slid between Camilla and her exit .
“I’ve been wondering what makes you such a good little seller of these cookies.” Walter took a few steps toward the table to snatch up the last of the Caramel deLites .
“What I propose is that we see if you can sell these Girl Scout cookies without all that cutesiness.” Camilla rose up from her chair but Walter’s firm grip on her shoulder settled her back down .
She looked up at him with reddening eyes preparing her next move .
Walter expected as much .
“I know you’re frustrated but so am I .
And I can’t let you just walk out of here and become one of them , ” explained Walter .
“This is our chance to prove to the world that you’re more than just a pretty smile .
You can be more than that… but you’ll have to make a sacrifice .
Do you understand ? ” Camilla nodded in submission not sure to what she agreed .
Walter released her and continued eating the cookies .
“Now when I finish with these cookies , we’re going to do something that might make you cry .
It won’t hurt , ” promised Walter “but we are going to have to say goodbye to that lovely hair of yours .
I’ll get my clippers and we’ll shave that little head of yours.” Camilla started to tear a bit .
“Don’t worry , dear .
It’s only a haircut.” Carmella looked at him in disgust and disbelief .
“Now Camilla , you have to agree to this .
Think about it .
This is really going to help you , ” Walter explained .
“You’ll know who your true friends are .
The cookies you sell from now on will be through your hard work and dedication .
This experience will make you stronger.” With that Walter smiled again .
It was that sickening smile .
The grin of an ogre .
And the thought of him shaving her head , the way her little brother’s head was shaved each summer .
The humming of the clippers stripping away the hair .
But it was mostly the thought of her mamá , whom she loved very much and didn’t want to disappoint which gave her the strength to fight .
Camilla leaped up , knocking back the chair , and threw her milk in Walter’s face .
The glass followed hard , hitting him in the head .
She thought she heard something break , either glass or skull , but was moving too fast to notice .
Walter wiped the milk , crumbs and blood from his eyes in time to see Camilla reach the front door .
She pulled on the door with all her strength , never noticing the chain that Walter always kept in place .
Through the four inch gap , Camilla could see where she stood a short time ago .
Her fingers , in a clumsy panic , wiggled the chain loose from the door but in the instant that the chain dropped free , a thick hand came over the top of her head , slamming the door shut .
“We’re not finished here ! ” he demanded .
Walter grabbed a handful of Camilla’s hair and flung her backwards into the living room .
A scream signaled her pain and terror as she flew into the snack tray and onto the wooden floor .
The Keepers are paying you a lot of money .
I’m afraid you’ll just have to roll with the punches.” I sigh .
So much for tact .
I wan na spit so bad , but my mouth is too dry .
Chapter 2 We squeeze through the tiny hole .
Oleg curses under his breath as he snags and tears his long , crimson robe on a nail .
I 'm behind him , cursing myself at what an unwieldy group we are .
Sightseers and tourists mean this is turning into a babysitting job , not a rescue mission , and I 'm tempted to call the whole thing off ; but the truth is I need the money more than I care to admit .
I duck under a cracking concrete slab and I’m hit right away by the silence .
The place is quiet .
Too quiet .
“ Gim me a light ! ” I shout , hoping to drive away the ominous feeling that’s creeping into my bones .
Sneak scurries up and hands me a florescent glow stick .
I bend it back and forth until it snaps .
The room fills with glowing green light .
We 're in a sewer system ; I can tell by the concrete walls and rusted metal pipes overhead .
Relics from a bygone era .
Murky , brown water sloshes about our feet .
The smell is too foul for Pennies , and he buries his nose into the neck of his tunic .
Bron lets out a bellowing laugh .
`` Maybe you’d prefer to be back home , counting your money .
To me this smells like breakfast.” Just then Bron stumbles over a dead rat and lets out a noise that sounds like a whimper .
Now Pennies is the one laughing .
“Looks like you found your breakfast after all , ” the Trader says .
Bron throws Pennies a menacing look .
The big man does n't like it nearly as much when the joke is on him .
I stop in front of the dead rat .
Or is it a cat ?
Whatever this once was , it isn’t just dead , something has turned it inside out .
“Do you think one of the Prospectors might’ve done this ? ” Oleg asks .
Ret shakes his head .
“Not unless they’ve taken to eating the uncooked flesh of sewer rats.” We do n't get more than a few yards before we find more mangled corpses .
None are larger than small dogs and all have been ripped apart .
A few are little more than mounds of bones peeking out from the putrid water .
Jinx wipes the sweat from his brow .
He’s got enough explosives in his pack to drop and seal this tunnel for the next thousand years , and from here it looks like he’s fighting the urge to do just that .
“These floating meat bags were caught and killed before the Prospectors cut their way in here , ” Jinx says .
For once , I have to admit he does n't sound so sure of himself .
“Why’s that ? ” I ask .
“Well , for one , we ain’t found nothin’ bigger than a house cat .
Which is strange considering there’s no shortage of wolves and cougars roaming through No Man’s Land .
Surely some of ‘em would’ve wandered in.” Bron cracks his own glow stick .
“But some of these are half-eaten.” “Maybe there’s something wrong with the meat , ” I say , diverting my eyes from the pulverized flesh .
“Look at where these rats are living .
Drinking this shit-water all day , I can guarantee they don’t taste like the chicken we 're used to in Sotercity.” “Did you have to mention chicken ? ” Ret asks .
“I can hear Bron’s stomach rumbling from here .
How many full chickens was it you ate at the fair last year ?
Twelve ? ” “Twenty-six , ” Bron mumbles .
“I was in bed with a bellyache for a week .
That Dehlia , I swear she rubs some kind of drug into those little chicken bodies.” I pull to a stop .
A clump of what looks like hair rests on a dry patch of concrete .
Strapped to my back is a twenty-eight-inch Katana , and I nudge it from its sheath and use the tip to scoop up the mound .
I hold it up high and the others look on in disgust .
There’s some kind of netting underneath and the hair is stuck to it .
I look at Ret , and he moves in beside me .
“What do you make of this ? ” He shakes his head .
“I’d say someone was scalped , but I don’t see any flesh or any knife marks.” Oleg snickers behind us .
“It’s a wig.” “A what ? ” Oleg sighs .
In his world , Mercenaries are nothing more than barbarians , and it 's starting to show .
I pretend not to notice .
“Before the end times , wealthy citizens bought hair if they didn’t have any of their own or if they wanted to change the way they looked.” Bron erupts into thunderous laughter and rubs the smooth top of Pennies’ head .
“Why don’t we give it to Pennies ?
His head’s as bald as a baby’s bare ass.” Pennies swats Bron’s thick hand away .
“Could it have belonged to one of the Prospectors ? ” I ask .
Oleg snickers and now I really want to kick his head in .
“You’re looking at a museum piece .
Judging by the cut , it probably belonged to an upper-class woman.” “A wealthy woman who liked to hang around in sewers ? ” Ret asks .
“Makes perfect sense .
Anybody else wondering what we’ve got ourselves into ? ” Something catches Pennies’ eye .
He reaches down and comes up with two twinkling stones , each hanging from a tiny hook .
“Earrings , ” Oleg proclaims .
“And by the looks of them , they’re quite expensive.” Pennies’ eyes are shining .
He slips the jewels into the pocket of his tunic .
“Leave it to Pennies to sniff out the valuable stuff .
You’re lucky we’re on a rescue mission , or I’d have to confiscate those.” “Don’t be bitter , Bron , ” Ret warns .
“You’ll get yours .
Maybe hanging out in sewers was a favorite pastime for rich people back before the world sent itself to hell.” “Yeah , or maybe Pennies just found the only good stuff in the whole stinkin’ place.” I trudge through the muck and the bickering fades behind me , while an uneasy feeling that I ca n't quite shake builds inside me .
Mutilated rats , killed for the sake of killing .
Rich people running around in putrid sewer systems , leaving artifacts behind .
It is n't making a whole lot of sense .
A little voice is telling me to turn around .
It 's low and muted , but it 's there and I usually listen to that voice ; but then another chimes in , and this new voice is talking about a large sum of money I owe and the cost of forfeiting payment .
In the silence , the second voice is louder .
Chapter 3 I raise my hand and the group halts .
The tunnel breaks off in two different directions up ahead .
Ret comes and crouches by the foul-smelling water .
He 's the best Tracker I 've ever worked with , but in a watery cesspool , I do n't hold high hopes he 'll come up with much of a trail .
Sneak’s looking at me and I sign to her with the fingers of my right hand .
She races off down the tunnel and disappears .
Chained to a Trader 's cart .
That 's where I found Sneak .
She was mute and had the body of a child , though her eyes told me she was at least twice as old as she looked .
The Trader , a prick named Lars , had been in the throes of beating her for snatching a handful of bread from his duffel bag .
She was quick and agile , and by all accounts she did n't deserve to spend the rest of her life tied to a cart , especially one owned by a Trader who was too dimwitted to see the girl 's true talents .
Somewhere , a rumor had started that I 'd shoved that Trader 's prick into his gaping mouth right before I’d put a round between his eyes .
Maybe I’d told the story that way myself , a time or two .
Hard to keep track , sometimes .
This new world that had emerged wasn’t exactly kind to us women , if you know what I mean .
Regardless , earning your right to lead a motley band of Mercs always starts with rule number one : Never show your soft side .
The far less heroic truth is that I’d bought Sneak 's freedom for fifteen thousand USC .
He stood six feet tall , bulging with muscle .
A shock of curly black hair spilled onto his shoulders from beneath a dirty red cap .
The Santa scowled beneath his fake beard .
His six-pack abs rippled beneath his skin .
I thought he’d charge .
Instead , he raised his middle finger and ran up the flight .
“Bastard , ” I whispered .
My name is Sam Flautt .
Mondays to Fridays I work as an HR rep at TEB Financial .
Today is Sunday .
Greg and I ran to the stairs leading out of the Ossington subway station .
Our feet pounded the tiles and clapped over the traffic announcements buzzing out the intercom .
I jumped up the first step .
A flash of red hat vanished at the top .
On the weekends , I write for my blog “Stranger Danger” , documenting the weird parts of Toronto .
Greg does the photos .
You should check out the blog ; once , we got mentioned on 102.1 The Edge .
“He’s too fast , ” Greg shouted .
I gritted my teeth and leapt up the steps three at a time .
“Get the camera ready ! ” I yelled back .
The air roared past my ears .
Afternoon light blazed off the steel railings .
I cleared the final step .
Bloor and Ossington was where Toronto’s downtown sank into residential streets and lots of small , pointless shops .
The neighborhood lived like the family car : old , comfortable , and worn smooth by use .
The graffiti leaned towards the artistic more than the criminally utilitarian , and hipsters with nothing better to do pasted stickers of 8-bit video game characters on the trash cans .
The restaurant signs were in equal parts left-to-right English and right-to-left Arabic .
The calm pedestrians , the gentle breeze , and the warm sunlight disoriented me as I came out of the subway .
It was one o’clock , the end of the lunch hour .
Toronto’s new spring sun burned high and hot today , blazing white in traffic signs and passing cars .
Crickets and cicadas buzzed in the brown , ragged grass .
I scanned the street .
This intersection was home to a TD Bank , a Lebanese restaurant called Mayt El Heshla , a 24/7 convenience store , and Grandmaster Kong’s Karate Academy .
There were a lot of people on the sidewalk , moving slowly and enjoying the first few days of spring .
I forced myself to ignore the peace and quiet .
It looked like a normal Sunday afternoon , but the Santa was nearby .
I could smell his crazy .
Greg came up panting behind me .
He clutched his Nokia in both hands .
His fingers left sweaty , rippled marks on the camera’s black plastic .
“We’ll split up , ” I said , surveying the calm street .
I’d tracked the Shirtless Santa for two days .
I wasn’t going to let him get away .
“I’m done , ” Greg wheezed .
“I can’t do it , man.” I didn’t waste time arguing .
I turned right on Bloor , stalking between the crowds and small , gnarled trees budding green in the new spring .
I scanned the streets .
At every storefront and in every mob of pedestrians , I observed the same monotone normalcy .
Just people relaxing and having fun .
The front steps of a sex shop had nothing , the Long and McQuaide music store had nothing , a place called the Comedy Bar had only a slim brunette woman sweeping dead leaves away .
Fucking routine everywhere .
Wait .
At an intersection a few meters down I saw an old woman in a pink windbreaker .
Her face was pulled into a horrified grimace and her hands were reaching to her widening mouth like she was about to scream .
I sprinted across the street , leaving Greg behind me .
A yellow Mustang squealed to a halt as I crossed .
Its horn blared at me .
I pounded onto the sidewalk , cleared a squat green bench , and chased the old lady’s affronted gaze down an empty side street .
The side street was a single lane , stretching through a row of low office buildings .
To my right , a pit dug two stories deep marked the birthing ground for a new parking garage .
There were no pedestrians here .
The wall of buildings even pushed back most of the noise from Bloor .
The buildings were all squat business buildings , half small brick buildings and half fancy wooden ones with ornate fronts and curved gothic windows from when the city was still under British rule .
I stood in the middle of the empty street .
I listened for screams , swears , or the Santa’s supposed catchphrase , “I need a ho ho hooooo ! ” Nothing .
I’d heard about the Santa for months , but had only just seen confirmed eyewitnesses testify on Twitter .
He’d become a legend in the city ; no one knew if he was a buff homeless person or a juice-monkey with a surreal spin to his free time .
He appeared on the subway to do pull-ups on the hand-bars and hit on girls .
He sported a perpetually gigantic hard-on that he called his Festivus Pole .
But despite his obvious insanity , the Santa was remarkably savvy .
He refused to talk to cameras and left at the first sign of police or media .
So far reports of him had been confined to interviews with victims and the girls who’d given him their numbers .
I needed footage of this man .
A voice down the road screamed , “What the hell !
? ” Gotcha .
I ran in the direction of the shout .
It came from a brown brick office building next to the construction pit .
The building had small , deep-set windows , and a massive hedge-lined entrance .
Behind a pair of silver-etched plate glass doors , the Santa screamed at a security guard .
The guard screamed back .
I pulled out my black Samsung phone , found the camera function , and hit ON .
The camera flickered on .
The quality was crap , but my screen caught the Santa and the guard , locked in their screaming match .
The Santa paused .
In the screen of my phone , the Santa flickered , suddenly moving too fast for my Samsung to capture .
He raised his arms , lifted his leg , and spun .
He drew his foot up .
His hips locked like a pistol cocking .
A white Adidas hung in the air .
And kicked the doors .
The doors blasted open , driven by the elemental fury of a crazy but very buff man .
I was standing way too close .
The stainless steel handlebar whacked my hand across the knuckles and sent my Samsung flying .
I grabbed at my airborne phone .
I missed .
The phone sailed through the air and crashed onto the sidewalk .
That phone cost three hundred dollars .
“Bastard , ” I muttered .
I clutched my aching hand .
I smelled the Santa as he sprinted past me .
`` Well , we 'd be in our homes , doing whatever , or going about our business .
Something normal , basically .
When they were waking visions , it usually segues right in from whatever we were actually doing at the time .
It starts with a feeling of… disquiet , I guess you could call it .
Like something 's off .
Something that we could n't place was n't quite right . ''
He snapped his fingers .
`` You know , like when you get the sudden sense that someone 's behind you ? ''
Gerald nodded .
`` Go on . ''
`` Well , we 'd be feeling that , and then we 'd look around and see we were alone .
Then we 'd see her . ''
`` Who ? ''
`` The ghost .
She 's a young girl , late teens , ratty hair , ratty clothes , like a homeless person .
Crazy look in her eyes .
You see her , and then she comes at you screaming gibberish , and once she touches you… you snap out of it , screaming in terror . ''
`` Hmm .
Has this happened to you personally ? ''
He nodded .
`` Yeah .
Freaky shit , man . ''
Gerald slouched pensively in his chair .
`` I see .
And the experiences of the others are the same ? ''
`` Pretty much . ''
`` Any chance it could be an environmental factor ?
Some kind of toxin ? ''
Crawford gave a cocky smile .
`` I know what you 're talking about , man .
No , that ai n't it .
We told Melanie to take her vices up to the garden .
We got a garden up on the roof , you see , with sculptures and everything .
Pride of the building .
It 's awesome . ''
`` Well , maybe something in the walls ?
In the water ? ''
Crawford shook his head .
`` God , I hope not . ''
`` You have n't checked ? ''
`` I 'd have to tear the place apart !
I 've already done that once before .
If it is a haunting , then all I need to do is get it exorcised or whatever . ''
Gerald pursed his lips tightly , a gesture I was familiar with .
He used it when he wanted to scowl at a client but did n't want to chase him away .
`` Well , this is an unusual case , Mr. Crawford .
If you do n't mind , I 'd like to come by your building and see it for myself . ''
They scheduled an appointment for tomorrow before shaking hands and saying farewell .
As the door closed behind Crawford , Gerald turned to me .
`` Your assessment of the client , Mr .
Thompson ? ''
`` I want to bludgeon him to death with his own ego , '' I said .
`` Would n't take long , it 's very heavy . ''
Gerald chuckled .
`` I can see where that impulse comes from , but be serious . ''
`` Seriously ?
Narcissistic , arrogant , egotistical… '' '' All of which mean generally the same thing .
His pride is significant , Kyle , but not all there is to him .
Look deeper . ''
I leaned back in my chair .
`` Well , he 's materialistic , for one .
Very concerned with appearances and possessions .
If he had enough personal funds to renovate an apartment building , he probably comes from money .
He takes a lot of interest in looking good .
Maybe an inferiority complex or something .
Desperate not to appear pathetic .
A lot less smart than he thinks he is .
He said 'mass conversion hysteria , ' for example .
Seems genuinely concerned about this haunting , though .
Do you think it 's a haunting ? ''
Gerald shook his head .
`` There is no such thing as ghosts . ''
I blinked .
`` That's… resolute , coming from a two-hundred year-old vampire . ''
`` It is exactly because I am a two-hundred year-old vampire that I can speak with confidence on the matter .
There is no such thing as ghosts .
Banshees , werewolves , Greek sirens , nearly ninety percent of what you 've heard about has some basis in fact , but no ghosts .
I 've been investigating incidents like these on the patriarch 's behalf for the better portion of those two hundred years , and I have never seen anything to suggest that the spirits of the dead linger in the world of the living .
Most of the hauntings I 've looked at are the product of creaky old houses , superstitious minds , or guilty consciences . ''
`` And you think that 's what 's going on here ? ''
`` No , not in this case .
It 's possible , but if Mr. Crawford 's description was accurate , it fits the profile of another sort of supernatural happening .
Something that I know for sure exists . ''
`` You have a theory ?
`` , I asked .
`` It 's a psychic .
She -- or he -- is projecting these hallucinations through telepathic contact . ''
`` For what purpose ? ''
`` Possibly she 's unstable .
The human mind has a natural tendency to keep to itself , so most psychics instinctively repress their abilities .
Many live their entire lives without even realizing they have powers .
The progression of these incidents -- first dreams , than waking visions -- suggests a deterioration of control over her abilities .
But there 's another possibility , one which necessitates caution : this could be an act of deliberate malice on her part .
You did a good job assessing Mr. Crawford , but you must also learn to extrapolate .
Between his narcissism , his wealth , and his lack of intellectual mettle , he 's likely to have a very poor grasp of the consequences of his actions .
There 's a good chance that this psychic was wronged by him in some way , and desires revenge .
Or she could be doing it for profit .
Scare away the tenants to ruin his business and force him to sell the place . ''
I narrowed my eyes skeptically .
`` The old Scooby-Doo plot ?
Colleen felt her stomach turn to ice .
She knew that thin face , that dark coat , those burning eyes .
It could n't be a coincidence .
He was following her .
But why ?
Not for any good purpose , she was sure .
She kept moving , down the staircase , her eyes scanning the station .
She was safe enough for the moment , but what if he boarded the same train she did ?
She had a sudden vision of going to sleep at night , wondering what he might do as she slept .
Or she might confront him , teach him some manners , and maybe get herself thrown off the train .
A group of sailors stood at the bottom of the stairs , half a dozen rough-looking young men talking and laughing loudly , and Colleen instinctively edged away from them .
Then one man 's words caught her attention .
`` I 'm telling you , it 's been stolen . ''
`` You lost it , '' the man beside him said .
`` Check your pockets again . ''
`` I do n't have that many pockets , '' the first sailor retorted .
`` I 'm telling you , someone nicked my wallet . ''
Colleen stepped closer and said , `` I think it was him . ''
`` Huh ?
What ? ''
The sailors stared at her , and Colleen , her heart thumping , let go of her suitcase with one hand so she could point up the stairs .
`` That guy in the black coat , with the newspaper .
I think he took your wallet . ''
The sailors looked where she pointed and Colleen quickly moved away before they could ask any awkward questions .
She hurried to her platform , not turning her head when she heard raised voices behind her , followed by the sounds of a scuffle .
She allowed herself a small smile as she handed her suitcase to a porter and boarded her train .
Chapter 2 – Dragon Alley The trip from Toronto to the coast took three days .
At first Colleen distracted herself by examining the hardware of the train , from the straightforward mechanics of the steam locomotive to the complex , cutting-edge pneumatic brake system .
She watched the scenery , and chatted with her fellow passengers , but by the second day all of that began to pall .
She brooded over her shattered family .
Her mother was a distant memory , just a face in a photograph and faint images of warmth and love and a golden smile , so long ago that she was n't sure if she was remembering or imagining .
Her father 's death , eighteen months earlier , was fresh and devastating in her mind .
The two of them had been inseparable , working side by side in the workshop whenever she was n't in school .
She still woke up some mornings not remembering that he was gone , and was crushed anew when memory came flooding in .
She reviewed what she knew of Uncle Rod .
He had visited on half a dozen occasions , always on his way to some exotic new location .
He was rootless , Dad had said .
Born to wander the Earth , seeking his fortune , seeking adventure , never content .
She remembered a broad-shouldered man , his stomach a bit bigger on every visit , his face a thicket of bristling whiskers .
He smelled of tobacco smoke and peppermint and something else , a scent she 'd never been able to identify .
The first time Colleen encountered whiskey she 'd been shocked to recognize the smell .
She 'd meant to tease Uncle Rod about it , but she never saw him again .
Six visits in twenty years .
Oh , probably he 'd visited when she was an infant , but six visits was all she could remember .
They had n't been especially close .
This feeling she had , that she needed to drop everything and dash across the country , had less to do with their relationship than with the fact that he was all the family she had left .
Was this trip ill-advised ?
She told herself she was going to settle his affairs , take care of anything that needed doing .
She told herself she was being responsible , but in truth it had been an impulsive decision .
She was plagued by questions , and it would take three days at least to get any answers .
Meanwhile there were probably telegrams and letters stacking up at home with the answers to all of her questions .
She sighed and read the one telegram she 'd received for the umpteenth time .
The telegram was signed `` Jane Favisham . ''
Colleen had never heard of her .
Was she a friend of Uncle Rod ?
A girlfriend ?
Whoever she was , she knew about Colleen .
On the morning of the third day some of her questions were answered .
She switched trains in Calgary , and found a Vancouver newspaper , four days old , discarded in the dining car .
She glanced at a lurid headline , dismissed it , and started to turn the page .
Then a name caught her eye and she turned back , a chill spreading through her body as she read .
Madman Subdued in Victoria On Monday afternoon a near-tragedy was averted at a small public school in Victoria .
A man with an axe entered Queen Elizabeth Primary School in the mid-afternoon .
He apparently tried to enter the first classroom he came to , but a quick-thinking teacher , Mr. Hainsley , pushed the door shut from the inside and held it , exhorting his students to flee by the window .
The attacker was attempting to batter the door open with his axe when he was apprehended by a group of teachers and a janitor .
No students or staff were harmed in the attack .
The attacker was taken into police custody .
He has been identified as Roderick Garman of Victoria .
The motive for the attack is not known .
Colleen stared at the newspaper , baffled .
Uncle Rod had taken an axe and attacked a school ?
She did n't know him well , but he 'd always been gentle , amusing , and patient .
It made no sense .
She checked the date on the paper .
May 1 , 1921 .
The day before the telegram .
Uncle Rod should have been in police custody .
How had he died ?
She was exhausted and disgruntled when she finally walked down the gangplank of the Vancouver-Victoria ferry and stepped onto Vancouver Island .
She had never been so far from home , but she was in no mood to enjoy the sights .
She hoisted her suitcase and trudged down the dock .
`` Miss Colleen Garman ? ''
Colleen looked up to see a woman of about forty standing before her .
She had brown hair drawn up in a bun , and wore a modest blue dress and an uncertain smile .
`` Yes ? ''
`` Oh , it is you ! ''
the woman gushed .
`` I knew it !
Your uncle has- I 'm sorry , had a picture of you in his house .
I 'm Jane Favisham .
I was your uncle 's friend . ''
`` How do you do ? ''
Colleen said automatically , and Jane shifted a parasol to her left hand so she could shake Colleen 's hand .
`` How did you know I was coming ? ''
Jane smiled .
`` There 's only one ferry each day from Vancouver , and I live quite near here .
When I did n't get any replies to my telegrams I decided I 'd come by each day starting today , for a few days at least .
And here you are , on my very first day .
You must have really hurried . ''
Colleen nodded .
Frosty the Snowman ?
I know.. , maybe there will be a nice , friendly Indian chief in an igloo around the next bend .
Maybe I can swap you for a bag of beads .
It’s dark , it’s night time , and we’re in the middle of a big blizzard and I ca n't do anything about it .
So just sit back and shut up.” Rick sashayed the steering wheel and leaned forward .
The back of the car wiggled and skidded every few yards , as the snow had become even thicker and the visibility was blacker and more suffocating .
It was obvious no other vehicle had traveled on the road in quite some time as there were no tire tracks to follow , and as the snow piled higher , the unfortunate Dart had to function as its own snowplow .
For some reason , the car seemed determined to continue to drag the couple up the slippery , winding mountain road .
“So why do you think Lizzie gave us this vacation , anyway , after all these years of treating us like garbage ? ” Rick inquired .
“Most years our anniversary would come and go with barely a phone call .
Then this year , out of the clear blue sky , she sends us on an all-expenses paid weekend at a fancy New Hampshire ski resort .
It’s not like her.” “It’s not as if you would have noticed that she loves us.” Annie rebutted , her tone indicating she didn’t believe the very words coming from her lips .
“Loves us ?
What a laugh .
I think she’s trying to kill us.” Rick quipped , still searching for a clear view through his sloppy windshield .
And then he crumpled his brow .
“Wait a doggone minute , she didn’t buy this trip for us , did she ?
I’ll bet you bought this trip !
You did this .
This is your idea ! ” “Pay for a trip like this on the money you make ?
What a laugh !
I couldn’t buy a pack of gum on what’s in our checking account .
No , Rick I did not pay for this trip.” Annie answered with complete confidence .
“Lizzie paid for it .
It’s just that she doesn’t know it.” “What are you saying ?
You stole money from our daughter to go on a vacation ? ” “She wrote me a check .
I told her I really needed the money .
I told her we were behind on our mortgage payments…” “Ah , so that’s it !
That property of ours is the only thing we have and it 's worth half a million dollars .
She knows that if we lose the house , she loses her inheritance ... she would lose everything .
That greedy little witch has been waiting for us to drop dead for years .
So you used her own greed against her to pay for this getaway .
You tricked her ! ” “No , I just cashed in a little bit of her inheritance for our own sake , and for her sake .
That’s all .
For her own good .
I supposed that if you thought she liked us more than she does , you wouldn’t be so hard on her .
It would be a positive thing for all of us.” “So you stole her money for her own good ?
How pathetic !
You might want to check the proof on that bottle of ripple under the front seat.” “So if you are so offended by all this , let’s turn around now and go home .
You can call Lizzie , tell her the whole story and give her all the money back.” “Are you kidding ?
Not on your life !
She owes us this vacation.” “So how did I know you would say that ?
And why should she go out of her way to do anything special for us ?
Growing up , you missed most of her birthdays , never once showed up at a school play .
She would cry herself to sleep , night after night after night.” “And what about you , Annie ?
Where were you the night she graduated from high school ?
Passed out and slumped over a barstool somewhere ? ” “You know I was sick that night.” “The doctor called it a hangover.” “You always turn this around and put it on me .
You drive me to drink.” The Dart had reached the crest of a large hill , but since Rick was distracted by the bickering , he didn’t realize where he was , and as he flattened the gas pedal to push through another snow pile , the car accelerated and was sent spinning .
Both Rick and Annie shrieked as they pirouetted down the road coming to rest sideways across both lanes at the bottom of the hill next to a road sign marking the Swift River .
Rick’s heart was beating a mile a minute and Annie cupped her shaking hand over her mouth as if she was preparing to vomit .
“Oh , Rick , please !
Let’s just stay here and wait for help ! ” Rick struggled to catch his breath .
A sense of terror was creeping into the tone of his voice .
“We haven’t passed another car in an hour .
It wouldn’t surprise me if they closed the highway until the storm is over , the way this snow is coming down now .
We might not see anyone else for hours .
We can’t just stay out here .
We’ll freeze to death .
We need to keep moving.” “Oh dear Lord , Rick , “Look ! ” Rick rolled down his window , reached out , and wiped a tiny hole in the snow crusted windshield and peered through .
Above them it looked to be that same rugged , old oak tree again , its branches reaching out across the road like before , except this time weighted with heavier snow , its arms arched down closer to the car’s roof , as if it was trying to snatch them up .
“It can’t be !
I know what you’re going to say , but it’s impossible .
It’s just not possible .
It is not the same oak tree .
We passed it a long while ago , many miles back.” Rick slammed the gas and the tires spun sending a chunky spray of snow high into the air , and they headed up the next treacherous hill as adrenaline and terror tore through them both .
The vicious driving conditions had become impossible .
The storm was defeating them .
The Dart battled valiantly , and continued its final crawl to the peak of the next hill , and around the next sharp corner .
By now there was no longer a hole in the snow on the windshield for Rick to see through .
And as the car reached the hill 's apex , Rick jumped on the brake and the car bounded to the bottom , this time crashing through a guardrail and coming to rest in a deep snow-filled gully several feet off of the The Kanc , out of sight , at the foot of an old , sprawling oak tree .
-- -- -- Trooper John Whittier had been studying the accident scene for over two hours .
A family passing through on their way to North Conway for their own ski vacation had seen the rear bumper of a Dodge Dart protruding from the melting snow and had called the State Police .
Whittier estimated that the car could have been buried for over a month–as several consecutive heavy storms had slammed the mountains one after another , and one deposited several inches of frozen rain along the top of it all , creating a concrete , icy tomb three feet thick .
The heavy ice had also snapped several of the weaker branches from the nearby oak tree , dropping them over the top of the pile , poking into the snow like wooden grave markers , further cloaking the horrific scene from passersby .
It wasn’t until the last couple of days that an unexpected warming trend swept through the valley causing enough snow and ice to melt and expose the restored chrome bumper of Rick and Annie’s Dodge Dart .
Whittier greeted Mr. Robert Pike from the New Hampshire coroner’s office .
The two old friends stood together in the narrow , wet breakdown lane of the slushy Kancamagus Highway warming themselves in the unseasonable sunshine , as a current of cars , nearly all with skis strapped to their roofs , zipped past .
“How are you , Bobby ?
It’s been a while.” “I’ve been good , '' Pike said extending a gray woolly mitten to shake hands .
“I am already sick of this awful run of bad weather , though .
I 'm ready to move down South .
I hate the cold .
But it was a beautiful drive up here today , I have to admit .
They don’t let me out of the city much anymore .
What a gorgeous day this has turned out to be .
Maybe I should come up here more often.” Pike was a heavy set man who wore a wrinkled tan suit under his overstuffed parka stained from multiple dribbles of coffee .
He surveyed the accident scene and wrinkled his nose .
He was gripped by an odd sense of déjà vu .
“A couple of years ago… we had a fatality along this same strip of road , I recall.” Pike said , trying to glue the pieces of his memory together .
`` I see so many wrecks , they start to run together sometimes . ''
“Yea , we sure did .
Right here , same spot.” Whittier answered .
“The victim that day had an outstanding warrant on him , and a trunk full of stolen weapons .
It was early spring , and the road washed out on him during a thawing flood which hydroplaned him into this very same gully .
He was impaled by a branch from that tree -- grisly scene .
That’s why the transportation department came out here and installed that guardrail .
Looks like it didn’t do much good for these poor folks.” “Now I remember it . ''
Pike said , rubbing the stubble on the side of his cheek .
`` But every stretch of this highway looks like every other stretch , and with all this snow , how can you be sure the spot is the same ? ” “It’s this tree.” Whittier explained , pointing to the big , old , foreboding oak that rose overhead .
He placed his hands on his hips and looked up at the tree with wonder .
Claire wasn’t in her flowerbed as I dashed by her house .
I turned onto Lincoln and strode along .
When I reached Grant a pickup truck was crossing the intersection northbound .
As I crossed I stole a glance south where the truck had come .
There it was .
That damned black smudge in the distance .
But it wasn’t the same as it was yesterday .
It was… maybe a little bit bigger ?
Closer , that’s what it was .
Not much , but enough to notice if you really considered it .
And if I were a betting man , my money would be on it being a person .
A man in all black standing in the middle of the street .
Odd ? —yes .
But that wasn’t all that was odd about it .
I stopped after I crossed the intersection and fixed on it .
Yesterday it had been on Manchester before I found him on Grant .
Had it ran east parallel with me only to stop in the middle of the subsequent road at the very moment I glanced down at it ?
And again today ?
How absurd a thought is that ?
My curiosity piqued .
I raised an arm and waved in broad friendly strokes .
It didn’t move .
Being that it was a trifle closer than it had been yesterday , there was a distinction now available for me to observe , and that was its face .
A face with color , albeit not quite flesh colored .
It was gray , or grayish , and some of that had to do with the sun being at its back—his front lost to shadows .
I had a hunch that it was a mask he wore over his face .
Why else would his face be gray ?
I closed the door on this intrigue by turning away and retaking my swift pace .
My next memory was early that same evening .
The sun was below the horizon , the sky pink and orange .
I was walking to the street with the taste of beer in my mouth .
Behind me was a broken Miller Lite bottle and a small puddle of beer .
I ascertained that I had dropped it , and why I dropped it was evident : the black figure south on Manchester .
Closer it had become , almost imperceptibly closer .
A station wagon drove past me , heading in its direction .
I watched raptly as the vehicle barreled down toward it .
I anticipated seeing brake lights , for the driver would strike the man had he maintained his course .
But the vehicle didn’t slow down , and the driver didn’t strike the figure .
It was damned close , inches from impact , and I’d be surprised if the side-view-mirror didn’t clip its black sleeved arm .
I waved at the interloper .
It was staring at me , I was sure of it .
It was completely still and might have been a statue donned in a black holocaust robe .
I had arrived at trepidation .
The following day I headed out for my afternoon jog .
There was something in my pocket .
I couldn’t say what it was , but it was bulky and I think it may have been a Buck knife .
I didn’t stretch on the porch today .
I ambled down the two steps onto the walkway , peering down the street at the source of my torment .
Closer yet .
Yes it was wearing a mask , I could see that now , though its detail was lost to the still-great distance separating us .
I began my approach toward it , tentatively .
With each step my heart beat increased .
Every fiber of my being was telling me I’d find trouble if I persevered .
My mind retained domain over my body , so my footfalls continued , small as they were .
Soon my body became the governing force of my being , not my mind , and thus I came to a stop .
I would have felt silly waving at it yet again if I wasn’t so wrapped up in my consternation .
This man was trouble .
I turned and decided not to run today , went inside my home and locked the deadbolt .
That night I stepped out onto my porch with a high ball glass in hand , scotch on the rocks .
My patio light was bright , bringing daylight to the immediate area , and turning south Manchester invisible to the night .
Was he down there ?
Maybe , maybe not .
My heart seemed to think he was , as it was beating no less than had I just gotten home from a run .
I flicked the light switch to off and had another gander .
I could see better , but being that there are no street lamps , nothing short of the headlights of a car driving by would evince this man’s presence or lack thereof .
I resolved to wait for just that .
Manchester was far from a busy street , but it had some traffic , and I only had to wait a few minutes before a sedan was approaching from the north .
I took a sip of my scotch and took a few steps nearer the street , fixed on where I estimated the man to be , and waited for the headlights to fill me in on the mystery .
Before that came to pass , the front door of the house across the street opened .
A teenaged boy came out .
Marshall was his name .
His gait was purposeful , his direction was north up Manchester .
“Hey Marshall ! ” I called out , eyes then returning to their invisible destination .
“Hey .
How are you doing , Mister Jacobs ? ” I held my hand up gesturing him to hold on for a second , and watched as the headlights of the sedan washed over the black shrouded man in the street .
The vehicle was apparently indifferent to it , and that was as alarming as anything .
It narrowly avoided clipping the man as it passed , and once again he returned to the shadows of deep night .
I turned my attention to the boy .
“Marshall , would you come over here a minute ?
Please ? ” He nodded and hustled over .
I believe he was a sophomore in high school this year , and damn if he hadn’t grown six inches over the last year .
He was fifteen and as tall as me .
“What can I do for you ? ” He asked in transit .
I directed my eyes toward the invisible figure and said , “What’s the deal with that guy in the street ? ” “Guy ? ” He followed my gaze .
“What guy ? ” “There’s been a guy in a black friggin robe standing in the street these last few days .
Don’t tell me you haven’t seen him.” He scratched his cheek .
“Who is it ? ” “Hell if I know .
You haven’t seen him ? ” “No.” “Are you in a hurry ?
Could you hang out for a minute or two , until another car passes by so you can take a look for yourself ? ” Marshall looked doubtfully at me .
He asked if everything was all right .
In his tone was skepticism .
He thought I was loony , and maybe I was .
“Yeah , yeah , fine .
Just stick around for a minute , okay ? ” He nodded and looked down the road .
It was several long minutes before another vehicle came by , and I was relieved because the kid was looking quite impatient .
I told him to keep his eyes on the road , about fifty yards out .
He nodded .
It was an old Cadillac heading south , and belonged to a couple seniors who lived only a few houses down from me .
Because of that , the beaten track of its headlights never fully reached the man in black before turning onto the dirt driveway .
But it created enough light that I could see its silhouette .
She pushed through , repositioning her feet under herself .
The sky outside faded up from black slowly , the long orange streetlights outside blinking off just as Virginia turned the last page .
She closed the cover , still warm in her hands , and laid her stiff neck back on the couch , closed her eyes , and sleepily pondered the tale .
No .
It just wouldn’t do .
# Virginia walked up North Street past the puddles that had formed in the uneven paving stones .
A kid on a BMX bike whizzed by on her right , splashing through a puddle and wetting her boots .
She didn’t care .
She was thinking about No Time for This .
Aside from the strangely coincidental duplicate shopping list , and the fact that her name appeared in the pages it was marking , the book was unexceptional .
Competent writing , decent structure , nice use of setting , and a sympathetic main character , but despite the engrossing plot , Virginia didn’t feel moved .
And when it came down to it , that’s why she ploughed through books – to have her heart grasped by the author’s invisible hand , to have the writer’s ink be injected into her bloodstream , to be made to feel more than she was capable of in the day-to-day life of an orphan with no life plan and no love in her life .
A book that didn’t really tug at her soul was a book that needed to be replaced as soon as possible .
It made her feel like some kind of junkie – always seeking that bigger , better fix – but she really didn’t care .
She saw no harm in her choice , so she trudged on determinedly toward Bemmie library amid the street noise .
She passed the butcher , the smell of death wafting out onto the street , then the bakery with its fresh doughy bread aroma , and then the green grocer with his garden of bright veggies in wooden crates smelling fresh as morning dew .
Further up the road she passed the public swimming baths , the chlorine escaping with echoing kids’ screams each time the heavy doors were opened .
Then , a ninety degree turn onto East Street , and , at last , into the sacred double doors of her home away from home .
She gently placed No Time for This on the return desk , then made a bee line for her section upstairs .
This time she had an Ellie Tarkenton book in mind , one of the few she hadn’t yet read – Run to the Devil .
She figured she could spend the morning here reading it , then grab a couple other books to take home after lunch .
They only had it in paperback , which was a little disappointing – she loved the sheer weight of hardbacks .
She brought it to a quiet , windowless , armchair-lined reading room where she could be alone – easy to do at nine on a Wednesday morning .
Out of habit , she flipped it open to the library sleeve to see when it had last been checked out – nearly nine years for this one .
A slip of light blue paper slid out partway from the bottom of the book .
She turned to the page it was marking .
Page 217 .
The slip of paper had her name at the top in cursive , but the other written words were all washed out as if the paper had gotten wet and smudged all the ink to an unintelligible blur .
The only other decipherable words were the closing words – I love you , Wendell .
Her hand started faintly shaking and she let the paper drop to her lap .
Her eyes focused on page 217 .
“Your life is in danger , ” he said , gently taking the auburn-haired young woman by the elbow and tugging her in his direction .
“You must trust me.” “But I don’t even know your name , ” she said , trying to keep up with his brisk pace through the foggy alley .
“Claude , ” he said .
“Just call me Claude .
Now , we must take refuge before what happened to your parents happens to you.” Chilled to the bone , Virginia closed the book .
Her stomach felt a little sick .
She suddenly did not feel like reading .
She just wanted to be home with Claude , behind her bolted door , away from the world .
She fled down the hard library steps , her heels clicking , her hand sliding down the cool steel handrail .
She burst out the heavy front doors into the noise and dirt of East Street , and returned home down North Street at a speed-walking pace .
She slammed her front door behind her and bolted it , then leaned her back against it and breathed heavily , her knees feeling like jelly , and little pinpricks of sweat forming around her hairline .
She let out a little high-pitched yelp and nearly hit the ceiling when the knocker rapped three times against her back .
Struggling to compose herself , she got on tiptoe and peeked through the little lens .
That man again – the one from the library .
The one who’d followed her home last night .
Was he stalking her ?
He knocked again .
He knew she was there – she’d just screamed .
She could just wait for him to go away again , but then where would this end ?
She rushed back to the kitchen and grabbed a long steak knife , then slid the security chain into place on the door and slowly opened it until the chain was taut .
She held the knife behind her back as she brushed her hair out of her green eyes and came face to face with the menacing man .
“Wh-what do you want ? ” she said , stammering despite her steely resolve to show no fear .
“My name is Kyle Walker .
It’s very important that I speak with you .
I’m an investigator.” “Badge ? ” “I don’t – I don’t have one .
I’m a – a special kind of investigator .
I look into paranormal activity .
There’s been a rash of strange occurrences lately at the library .
I just want to talk to you about your experiences , ask you a few questions – try to understand what we’re dealing with here .
Please , just let me in to talk with you for a few minutes .
You won’t regret it.” Virginia took a deep breath , her eyes not leaving his gray-blue eyes for a second .
“Fine .
You have ten minutes .
But I have some questions of my own , and I expect them answered in return for my information.” “Oh , absolutely , ” smiled Kyle , revealing his yellowing but straight teeth .
“I’m free to share whatever I know with you – I don’t work for Her Majesty , so you know , no government regs or whatnot – I can be completely open with you.” Virginia closed the door to unfasten the chain , then reopened it to usher Kyle in .
“Front room , please , ” said Virginia , standing aside with the knife behind her back , and her back against the outdated pink flowery wallpaper to let Kyle pass into the warm living room .
“Have a seat.” Kyle lowered his rear into a soft brown armchair with his back to the window , so his face fell into shadow .
“Your name , miss ? ” said Kyle .
“I’m Virginia Ward , she said , remaining standing , her right fist on her hip , the other dangling behind her back , wielding the knife .
She felt like a deranged killer .
“Why have you been following me ? ” “It’s complicated .
But it boils down to two words : Wendell Young.” “Did you say Wendell ? ” asked Virginia , her curiosity aroused .
“Why , yes .
Young was a notorious serial killer – he murdered eight young female library patrons between 1893 and 1901 .
A sad chapter in our city’s very checkered past.” Virginia’s arms folded loosely across her chest .
The now unhidden knife glinted a flash of reflected daylight at Kyle .
“So what of him ?
What does he have to do with me ? ” “Whoa , there , luv – mind putting away the weapon ?
I promise I’m not here to hurt you – if I was determined , your little steak knife wouldn’t help you much anyway.” She looked at the jagged edge of the blade , then over at Kyle .
A sheepish smile lifted the corner of her red lips .
“Sure – sorry .
I just thought maybe you were some kind of sicko.” “It’s Wendell Young that was the sicko .
He was obsessed with reading .
He himself could not read , but women who could read drove him batty .
So he slit their throats with his own kitchen knife.” “Again , ” said Virginia , stepping back and sitting in the armchair facing Kyle , “what does any of that have to do with me ? ” “He’s trying to get you – he’s been making contact and trying to draw you into his little games.” “Uh , didn’t you say he was offing girls in the 1890s ?
I assume this guy is long dead by now.” “Dead and well , wandering the library to this day , ” said Kyle .
“And apparently he’s finally learned to read , because he’s using some rudimentary ectoplasmic tricks to write notes to you .
To get your attention .
Can you show me his notes – or at least tell me what he said ? ” Virginia sat stunned .
Ghosts ?
At the library ?
A dead serial killer trying to get her attention ?
This was as crazy as some of those paranormal romances she’d tried to read last spring but quickly put away .
“You’re serious ? ” “Dead.” “Well , all right .
The first note was just a duplicate of my shopping list from the day before .
On the page where it was left , a character with my name was introduced.” “Mm-hm , mm-hm , ” Kyle nodded sagely .
“Classic approach – he’s reaching into your mind and grabbing anything he can get a hold of – in this case , your recent shopping list – and using it to make a connection .
The specific placement in the book was a nice added touch .
He’s getting smarter all the time.” “Um , can I get you some cocoa or something ? ” asked Virginia , feeling oddly more comfortable with this guy the more he spoke of ghostly behavior as if it he were discussing last night’s football game .
They got bullets in their legs for his freedom , and the freedom of his children .
The right to have your own mind .
To work hard and make something of life .
But the old man did n't understand .
Paul 's days , supposedly so full of promise , were hindered by all kinds of walls .
His father could only see political obstacles .
He could n't see the lazy , unbearable boredom that crept into everything Paul did .
He could n't see how the whole being a success thing was just a sham , how it was the same ideology with some of the pieces shuffled around .
It was all about time .
People manipulating their time , ruining it in all kinds of crazy ways .
Working eighty hour weeks , like his dad , with nothing to show for it but an ungrateful son and a bad back .
People who wasted time , like his mother , who never found the time to leave the apartment , a silent agoraphobic who hovered over boiled soup for hours .
But she broke the pattern , and he was grateful for it .
She left them when Paul was ten .
No hobbled legs for her .
The last he 'd heard , she was living well with a new husband and his two small children somewhere in Florida .
Once in a while he would get a sentimental greeting card with no message inside .
A ten dollar bill would be tucked in the envelope .
Money spent on time wasted .
He kept them in a thick roll in the top drawer of his dresser , feeling like if he ever spent them the ghostly memory of his mother would completely disappear .
Now , at eighteen , it was just himself and the old , old man .
His father smoked heavily , his cigarette butts lining the sides of the balcony in poisonous drifts .
He was careless when he smoked , burning holes in the furniture , his gnarled hands shaking fiery ash wherever he went .
A good chunk of the burns in the carpet lining the hallway were due to his father 's embers .
Paul slowed down , and time felt whittled to atoms .
He was n't going to make his bus , all thanks to Daniel and his stupid phone call .
Leave it to that idiot to ruin all sense of hope .
He made it to the elevators , and pressed the button .
It did n't light up .
The button was smeared with old gum , the faceplate missing both screws and yet somehow holding on through the force of the building 's will .
The paint on the elevator doors were chipped , an ugly orange shade that had changed several hues over the years , with evidence of a turquoise blue beginning in the deep gouge in the lower left hand corner .
Echoing down through the elevator shaft was a lot of scraping , loud movements , a vibratto of slamming into the metal doors above , signifying someone was being careless with large furniture .
Just his dumb luck that some yet another tenant was moving into the building this early in the morning .
Today of all days , someone was so impatient to start their life here they could n't wait to move in until noon , like most people .
No , they had to take it over at the busiest time in everyone 's lives , when there was n't a second to spare .
Selfish jerk , whoever they were .
Now there was only one elevator available , and it would take forever to show up .
The morning rush was set to experience a nasty roadblock .
Paul hoped someone gave the new tenant a matchbox full of cockroaches for a housewarming present .
Would serve them right .
He shifted from one foot to the other .
It was strange , Paul thought , how he could n't get the concept of hope out of his heart .
Time seemed to have an elastic quality in Paul 's consciousness , the seconds stretched to their limit .
Even though he knew it was impossible , there was that tiny , clacking nag against the inside of his skull : Just a few steps more , you can make it , you have time .
Tick , tick , tick .
The edge of time 's extended claw , tapping a hollow rythmn of hope against the backs of his teeth .
He fought the urge to check his watch .
Hope was gone , there was no point torturing himself over it .
Paul was going to be late for class and the bent old man he lived with was going to wail over his uselessness for about an hour or so before drowning his disappointments in low grade vodka .
He pressed his ear against the elevator doors .
There was an insane amount of scraping and banging , punctuated at intervals by gruffly voiced curses .
Lots of heavy furniture , by the sounds of it .
He tried to eliminate its violent echo and concentrate instead on the one elevator remaining .
He could hear the gentle scrape of the cables as they pulled it from floor to floor .
It was still too far up , maybe at the twentieth floor .
It was going to be a while before it finally found Paul and his broken backpack waiting impatiently on the fifth .
It had become a game to him , this special skill of elevator travel discernment .
Like a dowser , he always knew from the sounds of the cables and the echoes of conversation that drifted down exactly which floor it was hovering above and below .
The elevator bell dinged , startling him , and he pulled his ear away from the door just before it opened .
He frowned , uncertain of how it could have travelled here so fast .
He knew it had been further up , way up , at the twentieth floor .
The cables that had whispered their usual secrets had proven themselves liars .
`` You getting on , or what ? ''
Paul grimaced at the scrubbed face of a young man in his early twenties , a laptop opened and balanced precariously on his knees .
The other patrons of the elevator regarded him with equal dour judgement .
Paul shrugged his backpack inward and stepped in .
When the elevator doors closed , he was foolish enough to check his watch .
He had a whole five minutes to spare .
II .
`` I wan na go peeee ... '' Paul knew he was doomed the second her hand reached in between the doors , holding them open .
The five minute miracle he 'd inwardly celebrated was now a ticking memory beneath the wheels of fat luggage that seeped into the already cramped space .
He pressed against the far wall , his hip on the ledge of the circular window that gave a clear view of nowhere .
It was a strange addition for an elevator to have , but the architects of the building , drunken morons that they were , had viewed the cramped innards of the average elevator box as a portal of escape .
At least , Paul assumed that 's what they were thinking when they made this weird plexiglass circle that only provided a view of the outside world when the elevator was on the main floor .
The grassy knolls , exactly forty feet by forty feet , obscured any hope of a horizon .
It was all steel grey bolts and cables or parched grass .
A useless window onto taunted hope .
When the last of the luggage was finally squeezed in and every second of Paul 's time was officially wasted , a harried looking woman clutching her purse and her cell phone in one hand inched into the elevator .
Her tiny , tow headed little girl slipped past the various thin legs , ducking under knees , her cheeks tear-stained .
Her nose brushed against Paul 's shin , smearing his jeans with snot .
`` I wan na go peeee ! ''
she whined .
`` You 'll have to hold it , '' her mother snapped .
`` But I wan na goooo . ''
`` Stop your whining , Alicia . ''
Paul inwardly groaned .
His friend Daniel had a little sister , about the same age .
Never mind the terrible twos , it 's the fucking fours you had to watch out for .
He knew before she even let it out , and he braced himself as the tiny fusspot took a deep , purposeful breath .
Her screaming tears reverberated off the steel walls of the small metal box , the piercing keening making the other patrons of the elevator groan and give her mother dirty looks .
There was a collective , unspoken judgement over her parenting skills , a cynicism born of their own hurried longing for control over space and time .
`` She 's just tired , '' she said to no one in particular , her shoulders shrugging her purse at a better angle .
`` Up all night , too excited to sleep .
Here , Alicia , take Mr .
Mooney . ''
She handed the toddler a ratty looking bunny , one ear neatly chewed to pink and white threads .
Alicia took it eagerly from her mother 's hand and squeezed it tight , her tears and snot buried into the top of its threadbare forehead .
The elevator doors began to close , but were hampered by the corner of one of the pieces of luggage .
A large , sweaty man in a business suit stood next to the button panel .
His neck was as red as the second hands on the clocks at Paul 's high school .
Load the guns .
Five years ago , the end of days arrived .
The Phoenix Curse - After Part One Chapter 1 - Ali My heart thundered in my chest , racing so fast I thought it might explode .
I gasped for breath to quench my aching lungs as they burned for air , the deprivation a result of panicked flight .
How did they get in ?
My limbs felt numb and disjointed , like I was trying to control hands that were n't mine .
`` Go ! ''
I yelled .
Tears ran unheeded down my cheeks .
My father was standing there in the dark hallway , a forlorn look on his face , refusing to leave with the rest of the group .
`` Get them safe ! ''
Nowhere is safe .
He yelled something back , but I could n't make it out over the growls and screams of the diseased .
Smoke and steam obscured my vision , and by the time it cleared , he was gone .
I wiped the tears and sweat from my face as I pulled out what was left of my bullets .
Thirteen .
The last time I was able to get a good visual , there were easily twenty of those things out there .
That number could have grown since then .
`` You 're mine , '' I said solemnly as I pulled one bullet out and dropped it in my pocket .
I loaded my father 's revolver , a beautiful piece of workmanship that would soon be entombed with me .
I sniffed , but held back my sobs .
I had a job to keep me focused , and damn me if I did n't give them enough time to get away .
Dodging another burst of steam from the broken water pipe , I ran to the door my father had been standing at .
The hallway on the other side was empty .
Good .
I closed the door and pushed the old oak desk in front of it .
It was heavy and took longer than I would have liked , but I could feel my strength dwindling .
Already , the sweat was drying on me as the fever set in .
Turning to the door on the other side of the small room , I could see the barricade was holding ... barely .
The door rattled and shook and the wood started to splinter at the handle .
I could see them through the glass panel that ran halfway down the side of the door .
By some miracle , the glass was holding , but I was about to change that .
The balding freak at the front was getting crushed by those behind him , but that did n't stop him from hissing and clawing at the glass .
It looked like his nose had been busted up pretty bad judging by the amount of blood that gushed from it .
It splattered everywhere , and through the red smears , his eyes fixed on me as I moved in front of the window .
He raged and screamed , clawing at the glass to get to me .
He hated me , and nothing short of death would stop him .
I leveled the revolver between his unnatural red eyes and ended his frenzy .
The glass shattered in a rain of shards , and the freak 's body was pushed forward by the press behind him .
I did n't think it would fit through the window frame , but I heard bones cracking as they gave way .
I watched the macabre scene as the torso flopped lifelessly into my half of the room , dangling at an awkward angle as the bottom half remained trapped on the other side .
Now that the glass barrier was gone , their bloodlust renewed .
I cringed as their screams of rage assaulted me , no longer buffeted by the glass .
Stepping closer , my boots crunched on the broken glass , and I took aim again .
Two fell in quick succession .
I had to wait for the rest to push the bodies out of the way and find their way to the window .
It was n't worth risking a bullet if I was n't positive it would be a kill shot .
I didn’t have to wait long .
I emptied the gun , and found my hands shaking terribly when I reloaded .
Frowning at the wound on my arm , I saw the red welts had spread considerably .
The bite was getting worse very quickly .
I wasn’t sure how much time I had left , but I had the feeling it wasn’t much .
My fingers felt numb and fuzzy .
Two bullets fell and rolled across the floor , only to fall down the drain in the middle of the room .
`` Dammit ! ''
I ground my teeth together as I took aim again , the last four shots going fast .
The deadbolt no longer held the door closed against the pressure behind it .
The only thing holding the door was a hastily made barricade .
There was a groan as the metal locker started to give way , and I knew it would n't be long .
I retreated to the supply closet , pulling the door closed behind me .
The darkness made me shiver .
They would never be able to figure out how to open the door , but they 'd never leave either .
Given enough time , they 'd eventually break through .
No way out .
Did n't matter , I was dead already .
I pulled out the last bullet and clenched it tightly in my palm .
One way out .
From beyond the closet door , there was a loud crack , followed by a crash as the barricade gave way .
Despite knowing it would happen , I could n't suppress the scream I let out as beating hands fell against the door , scratching and clawing at it to get to me .
I broke down , unable to hold onto my composure any longer .
The fever dragged my weakened body to the floor .
The sound only seemed to incite them more , but at least it was keeping them here instead of going after my father and the others .
There was a small stream of light coming in from the bottom of the door .
It was just enough to see by so I could finish my last task .
I sat up , and fought a huge wave of dizziness .
Leaning against the metal shelving , I waited for it to pass , but my strength didn’t return .
It was never going too .
I pulled the revolver into my lap .
It’s so heavy now .
My fingers were useless as I tried to dump the empty casings , and everything clattered to the floor .
Even over the cacophony of moans on the other side of the door , I heard the cylinder land and roll away into the darkness .
I groaned , laying down against the concrete floor and reached into the void to find the lost cylinder , the other hand still clutching the last bullet .
The void swallowed me .
~ ~ ~ ~ I gasped awake , covered in a film of sweat .
The cool morning air was chilling as it dried the sheen .
It was just a dream of a memory .
A memory turned into a nightmare .
Moaning slightly , I covered my head with the blankets and burrowed into the bed , still shivering .
Closing my eyes again , I invoked the good memories to combat the bad .
I recalled my father 's laughter and my mother 's singing , thinking back to a time we were all together and happy .
A time before the divorce ripped us a country apart .
The old times , before the world turned .
I wondered again , for the thousandth time , if my father had made it out of that school .
Those thoughts led down a dark path , though .
A path I could n't afford to let my mind wander down .
I had searched for months , followed trails that led me in the wrong directions and never managed to find any evidence he was dead or alive .
I eventually accepted the inevitable and moved on .
Now , it might be some time in late September , maybe even early October , but there was no way I could know for sure .
I could feel the ache of loneliness growing deep in the pit of my stomach .
It was a longing to have someone to talk to , to travel with , and share stories and ideas with .
Bru was better than that .
He wasn’t going to fist-fight ten drunken neighbours under any circumstances !
Even though he could probably handle them , big as he was and stone-cold sober as he would most likely be .
Bru lived alone .
He had few friends .
A naturally solitary person , he neither needed , nor cared about the validation of a neighbour .
Bru never had any intention , when he moved in , of becoming a couch fixture in some neighbour’s home .
He simply didn’t need that .
Not after living in ten different cities in the last twenty or so years .
Bru didn’t live in a situation comedy world .
LaSally had lived there for decades .
Walter bought his parent’s home when they moved out to the suburbs , or something .
Brubaker didn’t have all the details .
LaSally knew everyone .
His kids played with their kids .
Brubaker was a stranger in town , in their eyes .
LaSally had a big chestnut tree on his section of city-owned boulevard , just as Brubaker had a maple tree on his .
Was it really about leaves ?
Brubaker picked up the odd chestnut from his own lawn , but he didn’t have the heart to toss it onto Walter’s lawn .
He just didn’t have it in him .
That was some kind of character flaw .
The flesh was strong in Brubaker , but his spirit was weak .
At some point he knew they were harassing him .
And Walter was the obvious ringleader .
What was the man’s problem ?
Except that he was a drunk , not the best behaved of people .
He had a wife and three kids , and a business ; while Bru got $ 930.00 a month from the disability pension .
‘The fog of war is legendary—and it’s also true.’ When he sat and thought it all out , which he did quite often , he always came up with the same question .
“Why would a man risk everything , including a nice home and family , for absolutely no gain ? ” Was some perceived gayness the problem ?
Was it about leaves ?
What the hell was it all about ?
“What a way to fuckin’ live , ” he grumped .
* * * Still , he seemed to have gotten away this morning .
Every stinking morning , that guy came out in the driveway , and fired up the work truck about five-thirty a.m. Then he went back in the house for half an hour or forty-five minutes , presumably to enjoy a long , hot shower ; or bacon and eggs , or something .
Bru just figured , ‘more harassment.’ He figured that out after roofing the garage , one square metre at a time .
LaSally came to the rear of his house , the kitchen sliding door , and loudly spoke to his wife , making sure Brubaker could hear it .
It was pretty revealing of his mind-set .
The wife must have been right there on the other side of the board fence , by the pool .
“If Chuck falls , honey ; don’t call an ambulance .
I want to get the video camera .
You know how I like to watch him suffer…” Brubaker was suffering a serious sleep deficit , one that had gone on for about…fuck , it had to be three or four years .
He got so tired sometimes ; his mind was going like gangbusters .
It was jumping all over the place .
He had a real Mexican jumping bean for a brain , lately .
Winter , spring , summer and fall , Bru figured no vehicle needs more than a thirty-second warm-up .
In winter , five minutes should be more than enough to get some heat out of a V-8 .
Going without a hot water tank for eight months , LaSally couldn’t possibly have known about that , right ?
The fact that Brubaker hadn’t tasted bacon and eggs in ten years , LaSally could never guess that , eh ?
Turning down the thermostat to twelve degrees Celsius in winter , Walter couldn’t know about that , could he ?
Using the bent coat hangar attached to the broken latch-lever , quite an ingenious device ; Brubaker opened up his 1986 greyish-sky-bluish Ford Tempo , rolling both windows down because the heater wasn’t working .
In the humid , March morning air , the windows would soon fog up .
His step-father gave him the car in some forlorn and misguided attempt to be helpful .
Brubaker could only imagine what the neighbours thought of that .
‘How can you afford a car when you’re on disability ? ’ Walter’s old man died and left him a pile of money .
It was his birthright or something .
But that’s where the big , charcoal-grey Escalade actually came from .
Ugliest truck ever made , a symbol of excess more than anything .
In the odd nooks and crannies surrounding area homes ; piles of frozen crud which had once been pure , crystal white snowflakes lay heaped up .
A couple of fresh flurries tumbled and swooped on their lethargic descent to earth .
Grey , leaden skies hung low overhead , and the bare tops of trees beat and swayed in the thirty-five kilometre gusting breezes .
His green work parka , the one with another man’s name stenciled on the back of the collar , the one from the Salvation Army , bulged alarmingly .
But he managed to get the seatbelt done up , and his coat zippered tight up around the neck .
He fired up the boiler and slid her into gear .
Having scrupulously saved up about seventy-five bucks in cash over the last month , quite an achievement ; he wanted new socks , underwear , and maybe some jeans .
The cheapest place he could think of was the big new Whale-Mart out in the east end of town .
Acquaintances were raving about the size of the place , and the prices .
Now would be a good time to check it out .
Besides which , they apparently opened up at eight o’clock in the morning .
A typical male shopper , Bru figured he could be in and out in twelve minutes .
Brubaker was a safe driver .
He had never been in an accident in his life .
That is to say that he never went off the road and caused any serious damage .
Mostly youthful indiscretions , where a couple of passengers could get out and push him back onto the road .
Or that time when he was alone , drunk in the MGB , when he ended up safe and sound in the bottom of a big ditch .
He was attempting a U-turn on a narrow road with no verge .
He got one wheel over the lip .
The steep , grass-lined ditch sucked him right down , when he hit the gas .
Backing up until he had a good hundred-metre-long run , he accelerated up the steep bank .
Shooting out of the ditch , he flew up and out onto the road , and escaped .
Although he may have left a trail of empty beer cans in his getaway .
Better safe than sorry .
He had a feeling that he might have drawn some attention to himself .
The barking dogs from nearby farmhouses were some indication .
That was a long time ago .
He felt warm enough in the balaclava .
He soon took off the cheap cotton work gloves .
After a long winter he was acclimatized .
The trouble with little four-cylinder cars these days was that they had an automatic choke .
The carb iced up easily under certain conditions .
When that happened , you had to put it in neutral quickly , hopefully without accidentally shoving it into reverse .
This was almost invariably fatal to the vehicle , at least in a front-wheel drive car .
Perhaps it would clear up without stalling .
He knew enough not to hit the washer fluid and wipers at this temperature .
He chugged out Vimy Ridge Road ; meaning to stop at Blim’s .
While it didn’t make a lot of sense to purchase his coffee , then go into a store for an indefinite time period ; he wanted that coffee .
Feeling flush with cash , he wanted that coffee real bad .
Blim’s was on the left , a couple of kilometres east .
He cruised at about the speed limit in the right-hand lane .
Traffic was light , but he drove courteously .
He made it easy for other drivers to pass .
After one too many coffeejambas , however , they start to break down and settle on the least stupid sounding made up word .
Rick hated the word Vectra and all the coffee zombies who invented it .
It wasn’t just the name he despised .
It was the amenities .
All the ridiculous things that some mobile home designer thought might just make the Vectra just a little more attractive than the next cumbersome dinosaur .
Like the powered sunvisors .
Now this vehicle was designed for people who didn’t want to do much , but to actually think that someone with the sun in their eyes might not have the physical ability to lower a visor to correct a glare issue was a bit too much for Rick .
Rick had worked for twenty years as a branch manager for a bank in North Miami Beach .
He knew a little something about senior citizens and what they might or might not want .
Seniors would spend hours telling you why it was important to have clean change .
They didn’t like dollar bills that were slightly crumpled .
They felt it an affront to the sacrament of American currency .
They complained that the toaster the bank was giving away didn’t brown properly .
Needless to say , Rick hated senior citizens .
Even more so now that he was considered one of their ilk .
He didn’t feel that old , but he knew the problems with modern society when he saw them and he knew what seniors might possibly complain about and pulling down a visor when the sun got too bright was not something anyone in their right minds might take issue with .
But some bright penny at Winnebago felt that it would be better to engineer a button which would spin a servo to lower a sun visor than to possibly fix the biggest problem with the machine which was it got five to seven diesel miles to the gallon .
Downhill .
With wind .
Autovisors were particularly despised by Rick .
There were many other little touches that bothered him .
Some decorating genius thought that it might make the Vectra feel more like home if they installed ceramic tile in the bath and kitchen areas .
Now first , he wasn’t supposed to call it a kitchen .
His wife kept reminding him not to call it a kitchen .
It was a galley .
Like on a boat .
Now he often agreed that the machine had boat-like qualities .
It made him want to vomit .
Much like a boat .
It stank inside the bathroom .
Much like a boat .
If they wanted to call the kitchen a galley , by the way , why didn’t they call the bathroom a head ?
Keep the nautical theme consistent .
Rick hated inconsistency .
Almost as much as he hated calling his kitchen-like space a galley .
Even galleys on real boats , not land boats like this scow , didn’t have ceramic tiling to delineate the area .
You knew you were in the kitchen because that was where the refrigerator and oven were .
It’s where you cook .
It’s where you sneak a few scoops of ice cream in the middle of the night .
It’s where your wife makes the great dishes that she used to make much better in the house you lived in for thirty years and raised four kids in but had to sell because she wanted to spice life up by shaking off her roots .
He had shaken off his roots with his family fifty years ago after Fidel ruined Cuba for the middle class .
He liked Fidel for that .
He liked Miami a lot more than Havana .
He liked Miami a hell of a lot more than the Vectra .
And he certainly liked the ceramic tile in his old kitchen that now belonged to Kerrick and Devon , a gay couple who just got back from their wedding in Toronto and wanted to settle down in a quieter area of Miami because South Beach had become too trendy .
There was only one thing the ceramic tile in the Vectra did .
It made Marisol think that this wretched carrier was in some way a proper replacement for their home .
Their home did not have a CB radio .
Of everything he found abominable about the Vectra , it was the CB radio that topped the list .
He talked on the radio .
A lot .
To whom he had no idea .
There were people out there with handles .
They called them handles .
Handles are something that you hold on to or open things with .
Names are what you are called .
Instead of names , they call them handles .
That’s CB talk .
Rick would always just call himself Rick because he never felt a need for a clever nickname like Hondo or Touthless Lou or Trogdor .
Some guy would always call him Ricky or some other would come back that he needed a proper handle and because he still retained a slight accent , would inevitably call him Babaloo as if he had never heard that one before .
The rest of the CB world would seem to chuckle about this in their own strange language which he despised .
But sometimes he had to talk to the world because Marisol would spend hours working on her novel with her headphones on while he was driving and he needed to talk to someone sometimes .
But he hated the CB because people wouldn’t just talk without giving some kind of information .
He had no information to give .
He didn’t have to get anywhere quickly so never bothered to speed so never cared about Smokey’s location or if there was a traffic jam somewhere .
These things didn’t matter to him .
Life mattered .
The universe mattered .
Marisol mattered .
He wanted to talk about all of these things that he used to talk about at the bank or the bar or with his buddies at poker .
They would always listen and talk about their own lives while he listened and that was what he needed .
Hondo only wanted to tell him to shut up about Lucy always wanting to be in the show .
He had many words with Hondo and had been threatened on many occasions .
He had heard it wasn’t a good idea to mess with truckers but was not terribly afraid of someone messing with the Vectra .
With its Caterpillar seven point two liter turbo-charged diesel three hundred and thirty horsepower engine pulling its weight along , he figured he could outrun a semi if needed .
He was more worried that no one with any kind of intelligence ever operated a CB radio and that merely by pressing the button on his receiver , he became associated with the refuse of the airwaves .
He thought it a step down from internet chat rooms filled with international morons typing greetings for hours on end without ever really imparting anything useful .
He tried for hours on end to send out his messages to whomever might be listening and he got Hondo’s threats and Aquaman’s instructions on how best to avoid Smokey outside Laverne’s Tavern on Route 13 outside of Idaville somewhere in Ohio or Wisconsin .
He hated the CB because it promised communication but never delivered .
As much as he hated the Vectra , he could never hate it completely because Marisol loved it .
She loved the GPS computer that always had the right directions to the next place she had always wanted to see but had never heard of before .
She loved the two televisions with the satellite on the roof that moved with the Vectra so that she could still watch all her shows no matter where they were .
She loved the Portsmouth Oak cabinets and the Green Slate interiors because she loved green and she loved wood and more importantly she loved the two together .
She loved that her galley had an icemaker and a dishwasher and she loved that she could still go online to the internet chat rooms and say hello to people all over the world .
What she loved most about the Vectra was that they were both in it together and that where ever they slept at night , they had never slept there before and everything was always new .
Even all of the old things they saw were new to them and she never failed to point that out .
She loved the Vectra because she knew that Rick would never have left North Miami without it .
So Rick loved the Vectra too because he loved his wife more than anything in the world and anything she loved wasn’t so bad after all .
But he still hated the damned CB .
“Look , ” said Marisol , sensing her husband needed some fresh air .
“They sell souvenir bridges at that store up ahead.” * * * Gil looked thoughtfully at his neat display of souvenir bridges as the tourists pulled up in their super cruiser .
The display was almost neat , anyway .
Each had a slight defect .
Kurtz always called them “scars of planning” when he dropped them off for sale .
Kurtz bore many scars of planning himself , but Gil rarely commented .
Gil tried not to comment about too many things , really .
He always thought that if you opened your mouth too wide , someone else’s words would fly out .
He had a hard enough time being responsible for his own words .
His father used to comment that if an inappropriate comment existed for a given situation , Gil was bound to say it .
He had fallen in love with radio and dreamed of getting a good start in the business .
He knew that there wasn’t much money involved in it and that while his friends were probably going to end up rolling in the dough as doctors , lawyers and the like he would be struggling to make ends meet sitting behind a microphone and a sound board .
He didn’t mind though .
It was what he loved to do and although he was just as prone to wanting every new gadget and the latest form of entertainment the stores put on the shelves he also knew that doing something he truly enjoyed for the rest of his life would far outweigh any of it .
His Father had asked him a couple of years ago what he thought he wanted to do with his life .
That was when Robert first began to think that God’s power was too easily forgotten .
All his life he had heard his pastor speak about the power of God .
God had moved mountains , caused buildings to crumble , parted the sea and yet somehow , every time someone wondered how they were going to get through something as simple as a traffic jam everyone forgot all about those mountains moving and those buildings crumbling .
That was just the start of Robert’s faith maturing , and one of the main reasons he wanted to attend a Christian university .
He wanted the opportunity to be around other Christians that could lift him up when he felt like doubting and never let him forget the power of God .
Still trying to suppress his smile and contain his excitement Robert opened the tinted glass door to the campus radio station and went inside .
Walls filled with posters of Christian bands immediately greeted him .
He looked to his right and noticed a large pane of glass .
Behind it was a short and chubby guy behind a microphone .
He was furiously searching for another CD to pop into the player as he adjusted one of the faders on the audio board in front of him .
As he continued to watch the short DJ behind the glass a tall young man wearing a suit approached Robert .
He had a smile that was blatantly forced and his tie needed severe straightening .
He was obviously older than Robert , which threatened to intimidate him a little , but he looked like a student and that made him just comfortable enough .
“Hey !
What can I help you with today ? ” the young man asked .
“I’m Robert Donovan .
I’m a freshman here at Mountain Valley this year , ” Robert said , extending his hand .
The young man met it halfway and gave it a good shake before he pulled it back into his comfort zone .
“Terry Lubscomb .
I’m the station manager , ” he said , nodding when he was finished as if still trying to convince himself he was really in charge .
“I’ve heard a lot about this station and I was wondering how students can get involved , ” Robert said .
Terry suddenly looked a little uneasy and slipped his hands into the pockets of his slacks .
“You’re a freshman , huh ? ” Terry asked .
“Yeah .
I’ve had some radio experience before .
I had my own show back in high school that circulated every other month on CD.” As soon as the words came out of his mouth he felt an overwhelming sense of embarrassment .
Moments ago he never would have let something enter his mind to make him doubt his experiences , but standing in front of Terry Lubscomb suddenly made him think about how small-time the guy probably thought his experience was .
He had walked into the station not more than three minutes ago with a smile he couldn’t contain and now he was talking to a fellow student trying to convince him he actually had talent .
He didn’t know if he was going to be given a chance yet or not , but he certainly didn’t feel quite as confident or excited as he had three minutes ago .
A lot changes in three minutes , he thought , forcing a smile .
“You did a show on CD , you say ? ” Terry asked , his smile long since faded .
“Yeah .
I know it’s not live but it’s a start , right ? ” “I hate to be the bearer of bad news , Bob—“ Robert felt his face flush red as his anger welled up inside of him .
“It’s Robert , ” he said .
“Right .
Well , unfortunately we don’t let anyone on campus DJ here unless they’re seniors.” “Seniors ? ” “I’d love to give you a chance .
I’m sure you did great with your little show in high school and all but that’s the station’s rule.” Robert felt rage surge through his body .
Who does this guy think he is ?
he thought .
He’s probably about as good at entertaining folks on the radio as he is at putting on that ridiculous tie of his .
Robert shifted his stance as if preparing for a fight and then it happened .
Several times in his life , when things had gotten particularly frustrating or when other’s , not unlike this Terry Lubscomb fellow , began to belittle him or verbally attack him with a grin , he lost control of whatever portion of his brain that controlled the feed of thought through the throat and had let loose .
Now was one of those times .
“So , you mean to tell me you won’t even give me a chance or see what I’m capable of because I’m a freshman ? ” Robert said , his voice shaking a little with anger .
Terry was far too absorbed in himself to notice how visibly upset Robert was becoming .
“Unfortunately , that’s the rule .
If I were to let you get in here and start working behind the board I’d have to change the rules all across the board , ” Terry said , forcing another smile .
“But you’re welcome to stop by anytime and watch the DJ who is on shift .
We’ll even leave a chair out here in the hallway so you can have a place to sit.” Robert balled up a fist as he looked at the miserable plastic chair that was sitting in the corner .
Right , he thought I’ll just drop by and sit in that plastic chair for hours and look like a complete moron .
You’d like that wouldn’t you , Terry ?
“You understand , don’t you Bob ? ” Terry asked , his smile never looking more condescending than now .
Robert took a deep breath and tried again , desperately wanting to hit home with this guy , to appeal to his good nature .
“Look , Terry .
I know I don’t have all the experience in the world but that’s what I’m here for .
I came to college to experience another side of life and I came to this station to experience a little bit of what it’s like to be a professional DJ .
Are you honestly going to turn down someone who would be willing to work as hard as they could just to get some time to learn the booth ? ” Terry thought for a second as Robert stood there , knowing that he couldn’t have explained his cause any better than that .
Finally , after a few seconds Terry shook his head .
“I’m sorry , Bob .
There’s not much I can do for you .
I wish I could , I really do .
I just can’t break the rules.” Robert held back his tears of disappointment as he stared at Terry , confused at how someone could completely ignore what he had just said because of a stupid rule .
He knew that Terry believed him .
Terry had to .
Heck , Terry probably even had to be smart enough to at least realize that he could use Robert to clean the toilets around the station for just five minutes in the booth .
But because of a rule of seniority Robert was being forced out of his chances at his dream .
It wasn’t fair .
“You know what though ?
We could use a good salesman like you .
We’re trying to sell some spots to earn revenue for the station , you know , to get some new equipment .
I’ll bet you’d be dynamite at sales .
Why don’t you stop by tomorrow and we’ll talk about it ? ” Terry said , his smile looking genuine for perhaps the first time that afternoon .
Robert shook his head in disbelief as he turned toward the station door .
“Thanks for nothing , ” he said as he walked out .
CHAPTER 2 When Ewen finally made his way outside to begin his long walk to his first class the sky hadn’t changed much .
He couldn’t remember the last time it was sunny and warm .
He wished he could .
At least then he’d have something to think about beside the fact that he had no friends and no one to do anything with .
Mountain Valley was a secluded small town where everyone still prayed before every meal—even at the local Hardee’s—and most of the trappings of modern society had yet to invade the sleepy space .
About as high tech as they got in Mountain Valley was either the local cinema , which was currently playing several films from the 70’s , or The Snack Shack .
The latter was more of a hang out for students who needed to get off of campus for a bit and breathe a little freedom .
You could get old-fashioned malts and shakes with just about any flavor you could think of as well as what the town of Mountain Valley claimed were “the best grilled burgers this side of the Blue Ridge.” Ewen had visited The Snack Shack once last semester .
The weather had just started to get warm , and the air had the typical Virginia mugginess hanging in it .
When he entered he suddenly realized that of all the days to hit The Snack Shack that this one was probably the worst .
Every seat was taken and he had to “take a walk” as he liked to call it ; that meant he had to meander his way nervously through the crowd , desperately hoping there was a seat hidden somewhere so that he could keep everyone from staring at him .
It didn’t matter how many classes he had with this guy or that girl , for some reason he didn’t make an impression on anyone so he was always gawked at in public .
It was a constant feeling of “who’s the new kid” despite the fact that the “new kid” was already supposed to be done with the freshman blues .
Of course , he never ended up finding a seat and by the time he had made his way back up to the front and to the door he no longer craved a malt , shake , or a famous burger .
All he wanted by then was to get out of the building and get some fresh air .
He poured himself out onto the sidewalk in front of the store , the sweat beads on his forehead threatening to roll at any moment .
That was the day he first , honestly , wondered why God had sent him there .
As he made his way across the street in front of his dorm building , his book bag slung over his left shoulder , he began to wonder that very thing again .
He knew God was loving and just and he believed that He had a plan for his life , but for the life of him he couldn’t figure out what Mountain Valley University had to do with it .
He had felt nothing but alone since he came here , which was the exact opposite of what he thought he would feel .
He gave it a shove .
Then another and another .
It wasn’t moving .
“Now what ? ” Meg said .
“Now I push a little harder.” He smiled .
“No harder than pushing out a baby.” “Ha , ha.” “I’ll get it.” “Just leave it there , ” she said again .
“If I leave it there , you’ll never get any sleep and you need your sleep.” “Like I’m going to sleep anyway .
In case you haven’t noticed , Alan , there’s a coffin trying to get into my living room.” Funny .
Well , she might have been eight months down the road , but her mouth still worked just fine .
Bracing his feet , he put his hands back on the end of the coffin and gave it everything he had .
The box moved maybe an inch or two before the panel bowed in again and a trickle of black water came oozing out , running over the back of his hands .
He yanked them away like he’d been scalded , letting out a little cry .
God , of all things .
Drainage from a coffin .
Meg giggled into her hand .
“It’s just a wooden box , Alan .
That’s all it is.” He chose to ignore her amusement .
Yes , it was just a wooden box hammered together in a casket factory somewhere and a spider was just a spider , still you didn’t want to go touching one if you could help it .
And you sure as hell did not want to grab a fat , juicy one in your palm and squeeze your fist shut until that spider’s soft body pulped in your hand and brown juice ran between your fingers .
And the coffin—and the slime running from it—gave Alan about the same sense of aversion and disgust .
But it had gone beyond that now .
At first , he was hesitant to touch it .
Then merely revolted at its feel .
But now he was simple pissed-off .
The storm wasn’t bad enough .
The damage to his house and yard were not enough , now he had a fucking coffin stuck in his window .
And that sonofabitch was going back outside whether it wanted to or not .
He put his hands on the box again and this time , he really put his back into it—his back and his upper body strength , which was considerable after working in a lumberyard these past twelve years .
The panel almost completely collapsed , but before it did the box moved five or six inches , enough so that most of its length was hanging out the shattered window .
Gravity did the rest .
The casket balanced precariously there for a moment or two , and then fell out the window .
“Ha ! ” Alan said .
It hit the water with a great splash , stood straight up and down like a ship about to go under , bobbed for a second or two , then righted itself , twisting in a lazy circle as the current found it and carried it away .
It joined the gently rushing river of filth and bobbing things .
Then was gone from sight .
“That wasn’t so bad , was it ? ” he said .
“Just needed some convincing was all .
A little push to show it who was in…” Alan’s words dried up in his mouth .
For one crazy second in the glare thrown by the flashlight beam , he’d thought somebody was standing out in the street .
But that was crazy .
Nobody could stand out there .
At least not for long .
“What is it ? ” Meg said .
“Ah , nothing.” And it was nothing .
Just a shadow or something swept by in the current .
That’s all .
There was nothing out there now but that black , oily water and all manner of flotsam caught in its pull .
“Look at your hands , ” Meg said .
Alan did .
They were muddy and dark .
“Grab me a towel from the kitchen , will ya ? ” “You’re not going to wipe that crap on one of my towels.” “Meg , please.” Sighing , she turned from him and then stopped .
Stopped dead as he stopped himself .
He could not have just heard what he’d thought he’d heard .
Not on a night like this .
Not in a storm like this .
It just couldn’t be .
But then it came again : a slow , insistent pounding at the front door .
Thud , thud , thud .
“Alan…” But he ignored her .
There could not be anyone out there knocking .
Not tonight .
It just wasn’t earthly possible .
He had a mad desire to take Meg by the hand and run upstairs , pretend that he had not heard a thing .
But that was silly…wasn’t it ?
The porch angled away to the side , so he could not see who was out there from the living room window .
“Don’t answer it , ” Meg whispered .
The pounding came again .
An almost mechanical sound .
He walked over to the door , something seizing up inside him , his belly pulling up like it wanted to fill his throat .
“Alan , please…” But it was too late , because his hand was already gripping the knob and his other was undoing the latch .
Behind him , his wife made a weird , moaning sound .
Without further ado , he opened the door to what waited out there .
3 Any given night in the summer or fall , had you been out walking down Angel Street in Witcham’s River Town , you might have noticed a garishly painted edifice squeezed dead center of a group of false-fronted buildings between 12th and 13th Avenues .
Though the block featured everything from pawnshops to fried chicken counters , there was no mistaking that particular establishment with its bright scarlet façade and gold scrolling along the roofline .
The sign board read : COSTELLO’S MUSEUM OF MORBID MEMORABILIA in antique lettering .
From June through October , it was strung with red , yellow , and white bulbs and calliope music played from speakers over the door .
Its proprietor , a somewhat seedy character named William Barney , was from a long line of carnival and circus performers .
Though he had not labored on the midway for thirty years or more , Barney—as his father and grandfather before him—had amassed a sizeable collection of souvenirs and mementoes from those heady and raucous days of yore .
Step inside and the walls were plastered with old circus posters and railroad show banners and sideshow accordion boards advertising everything from bearded ladies to three-headed goats , half-girls and half-boys , fire-eaters and armless wonders and alligator men .
You could view the skeletons of giants like “Sky-High” Lester Brown to those of dwarves like Wee Willie Wilkins in their respective , neon-lit caskets or marvel over the death masks of Bobby the Frog-Boy and Slim Gerou , the Caterpillar Man .
And if you were especially daring , you might want to investigate the body cast of Laddy the Human Larva or see firsthand the implements of old-time torture shows and view a photographic panorama of the lives of rubber men and monkey girls and nail-eaters .
As can be inferred , Barney’s collection concentrated mostly on the more grim and sensational aspects of carnival lore .
On dusty shelves and scattered over tabletops there was an exceptional collection of natural and decidedly unnatural wonders .
Everything from embalmed devil-babies to stuffed mermaids , the tanned hides of man-eating snakes and giant rats , shrunken heads and ossified hands .
There was another room in the back that drew most of the museum’s business .
And for an additional three dollars , you could go inside and view Barney’s collection of bottled babies and pickled punks .
In jars and glass vessels and tanks of preservative were human and semi-human curiosities , things that had died at birth , things unborn , and things that could never have lived in the first place .
They were lined up on shelves and lit by red light bulbs to enhance atmosphere and lend an uncanny , otherworldly illumination to things most definitely uncanny and otherworldly—freak births and bucket babies , parasitic twins and monstrous fetuses of every description .
Drifting in their oceans of brine , here were things with too many limbs or not enough , one-eyed and two-headed and six-fingered , squid-babies and spider-babies , a menagerie of flesh twisted and mutated into the most abnormal shapes .
Costello’s Museum was just down the road from Hillside Cemetery and of all the buildings on that block , it took the worst beating .
Its façade , which was little more than reinforced plywood and joists , was obliterated by the rushing wall of water , mud , and debris that had burst the banks of the Black River and pretty much sucked up everything in its path .
The water crashed through the museum , destroying Barney’s collection of oddities and spilling into the Parlor of Pickled Punks , with such force that nearly all the vessels and jars were shattered instantly .
The backwash sucked everything out into the streets , out into that river of foul water and falling rain .
And for some time , up and down Angel Street , monstrous things that had not been free of their liquid prisons for decades were exposed to what fell from the sky .
Things that had haunted the dreams of generations were set loose upon the world .
They bobbed and drifted and long-curled limbs unfurled… 4 Bodies .
Oh , Jesus Christ , look at all those bodies .
That’s what Heller was thinking as the enormity of it all sank into him , piercing him and making him want to shove his fist in his mouth to stay the scream that begged to get out .
A mire of bobbing bodies and mud and filthy black water and coffins .
Standing there in that dirty rushing water , rain spraying into his face , he said , “Have you ever seen anything like it ? ” Next to him , Miggs just said , “Can’t say that I have .
How could he hear people talking on the other side of a steel door ?
Their voices were loud , clear and distinct .
His curiosity needed answers .
He approached the door , held his breath , and leaned his ear to the cold metal .
The men were discussing how perplexed the doctors were with the mauling of two people in the hospital that evening .
Nicholas had no clue what they were talking about until one of them said the phrase that revealed it all , a phrase that froze Nicholas right where he was and made his knees weak .
“At least the twins survived.” Instantly , Nicholas remembered why they were there .
His memories flooded back like a crashing wave against his skull .
It was the attack !
Those wild human-animal things attacked us out of nowhere !
We were helpless and left there to die .
Victoria didn’t survive ?
My wife didn’t survive ?
His mind raced around those words that seemed to echo in his head .
Pain struck his stomach like an iron fist .
He doubled over and grabbed his midsection .
A mix between devastation and physical pain were holding him hostage .
“Victoria , ” he said reverently .
He whispered her name .
His quiet calls gradually became loud cries of anguish .
“No , Victoria .
No ! ” Nicholas crumpled to the floor .
His wailing caused the two hefty security guards standing outside his door to enter the morgue .
At their feet was Nicholas .
His dark brown hair was plastered to his scalp from dried blood .
His long , black fingernails dug against the tiled floor .
“Sir , what are you doing in here ?
Patients are not allowed in this room.” The guard leaned down to help Nicholas to his feet .
Nicholas growled .
Deep , throaty growls that he had never heard come from his mouth welled up from deep within his chest .
The hunger pangs were unbearable and he suddenly felt a desire to hurt someone .
or worse .
He tried to focus on his wife—his beautiful redheaded wife , Victoria .
She completed him .
She was the love of his life—his soul mate .
But , something else took over .
He felt an uncontrollable rage consume his instincts .
Nicholas pushed himself onto his feet .
The torment on his face , and the blackness of his eyes made the guards take a step back .
One guard had his hand on his baton while the other pulled out a stun gun .
Nicholas had one thought that was as pressing as his hunger pangs : finding his twin babies .
They were all he had left of his wife .
“Where are they ?
! ” he yelled .
“W-We don’t know what you’re talking about.” Without warning , Nicholas picked up one guard and threw him across the room into the tiled wall .
“Oh , fuck , ” the other guard whispered under his breath .
Nicholas’s own strength shocked him , but he had no time to evaluate it .
His head snapped back to glare at the other guard .
A low , continual growl vibrated in the back of his throat .
His black , enraged eyes glared at the guard .
“Where are Amaya and Apollo ? ” he demanded .
The guard’s hand was shaking fiercely as he held the stun gun out in front of his body .
“Who ?
I’ve n-n-no idea who you’re talking about.” “Where are my twins ? ” “Uh , uh , the nursery ?
Maybe the nursery ?
I’m only a guard .
I don’t know .
Pl-please don’t hurt me ! ” Nicholas could hear the guard’s pounding heart like a bass drum next to his ear .
It was distracting his thoughts , and he wanted it to stop .
He suddenly had an urge to hurt the guard .
In one swift movement , faster than the speed of thought , Nicholas thrust his hand through the man’s chest and pulled out his beating heart .
The guard , with his eyes wide open , crashed to the ground .
The heart was still beating in Nicholas’ hand .
He crushed his fingers around it , until it stopped the insistent thud .
When he dropped the heart to the ground , a strong hunger pang lashed his stomach again .
The bloody , caved-in ribcage of the guard sprawled out at his feet unleashed a sweet aroma he could not resist .
He felt a strong instinct to taste—to drink .
Without hesitation , he licked the blood from his hand .
He succumbed to his animalistic urge by ripping into the guard’s jugular vein .
The initial bite released a warm , thick gush of satisfaction he had never felt before .
He did not fight it ; his body needed that blood , and he acted accordingly .
It felt right .
Once he was full , Nicholas left the room in search of his twins .
In seconds , he ran up three flights of stairs .
Although he was confused and disoriented , he had one goal : to find his twins .
When he threw open the door to the nursery , another growl welled up from his chest to his throat .
He approached two nurses and demanded that they release his children .
Both nurses screamed and cowered on the floor behind the nurses’ station .
Nicholas walked up to a nurse and grabbed her by her shirt , lifting her straight up and over his head .
“Where are my twins ? ” he growled .
“T-twins ?
Th-they’re over there .
J-Jane and John Doe , ” she stammered .
Nicholas dropped her to the floor , turned and peered at the small row of bassinets .
The guard’s blood covered Nicholas’s hands , arms , body and face .
He looked like a skinless heap of blood walking toward the bassinet of babies , his babies , and he was not leaving without them .
He searched the nametags on the bassinets .
Finally , he found Jane and John Doe .
He scooped up Amaya with her black hair and fair skin .
Then he scooped up Apollo the same way , but stared at him a moment , fascinated by the same red hair his mother had .
They were his babies .
*** Nicholas ran for the staircase , cradling his newborn children between his arms and his sides .
Among the screams and chaos his appearance alone created , he ran straight out the exit door , activating the hospital alarm .
He did not care ; he was determined to get out of the hospital with his babies .
He collided with a defenseless man just outside the hospital exit and kicked him on the chest , sending him through the air and against a large oak tree .
His white lab coat flapped open .
He continued to run until he heard the chaos of sirens close in around him .
He slowed down as one police car after another slid into place , encircling him .
A bear might , but only if was starving or had cubs nearby .
Since it was fall instead of spring or early summer , there shouldn’t be any young cubs around , and the abundance of food in the forest made starvation unlikely .
A thought hit him then , and he stopped .
A mountain lion .
He’d read somewhere that their numbers had been on the rise in recent years .
A mountain lion would definitely attack a dog , and just might attack a human .
But if a big cat had pounced on Blue , the dog would have fought back , even if he had been taken by surprise .
Alvin had heard no sounds of a struggle , only a single , loud yelp , then nothing .
Something hit him on the shoulder and he nearly screamed .
Another fucking acorn .
Again , there was a rustling in the treetops , and Alvin , on impulse , aimed his gun into the tangled mass of branches and colorful , dying leaves , and squeezed off a shot .
The squirrel , or whatever it was , did not come tumbling to the ground , but the ruckus in the treetops ceased .
Alvin sighed .
He might as well head back home and face the music .
At least he could tell Wanda that something had gotten Blue , instead of having to report that the dumb dog had simply run off .
She would still be mad , sure , but she could hardly blame him for it , at least .
As bad as he hated to , he would probably put off hunting tonight as well .
He would be too tired .
And , though he wouldn’t admit it , the woods were still giving him the creeps , and he didn’t think he wanted to return in the dark .
Not tonight .
He turned and started back the way he’d come , and another acorn hit him , with force , this time in the back .
He whirled around .
The nut had not simply fallen from a tree—it had been thrown .
An acorn falling straight down wouldn’t have hit him where it did , and it wouldn’t have stung like that , either .
Someone was playing around with him .
“Who’s there ? ” he called .
No one answered .
The thought occurred to him that one of his buddies might be screwing with him .
Maybe someone had come across Blue and realized that Alvin would be close by .
They might be hiding now , laughing at him , petting Blue to keep him quiet .
No , that wasn’t right .
Alvin had heard the pain in the dog’s yelp .
None of his buddies would have done that to another man’s hunting dog .
If someone was out there , they must have taken care of Blue , and now they were after him .
Alvin couldn’t even begin to imagine who might do such a thing , but if the nut had not fallen from a tree… He was hit again , this time on the cheekbone , just under his left eye .
He cried out in pain and surprise , and brought the gun up , waving it wildly .
Despite the fact that the acorn had hit him head-on , he hadn’t been able to tell where it had come from .
His eye began to water , blurring his vision .
“Don’t think I won’t put a bullet in you ! ” he yelled , and someone laughed .
It sounded like a small child , shrill and high-pitched .
What in the hell was a kid doing out in the middle of the woods ?
Alvin lowered his gun , not wanting to accidently shoot some rugrat .
He was miles from anywhere .
It was hard to conceive any set of circumstances which would have put a small child alone in the woods on Drover Mountain , but Alvin supposed anything was possible .
Drug use was rampant in the area , especially oxycodone , which the media had labeled hillbilly heroin .
The papers were full of stories about kids being taken away from their druggie parents .
Alvin himself had never had any use for pills , preferring hard liquor when the mood hit him , but he knew what the drugs did to people .
So he guessed that it was possible that a child had wandered off , unnoticed by strung-out parents , and ended up out here in the middle of nowhere .
Not likely , but possible .
“Hey , ” he called .
“It’s okay .
I’m not going to hurt you .
Come on out where I can see you.” He tried to keep his voice pleasant and non-threatening , but he ended up sounding like some creepy pedophile .
He scanned the trees , looking for any sign of movement .
From behind a large oak , a small head peeked out briefly , then disappeared .
“Gotcha , ” Alvin mumbled softly .
He started toward the oak , walking slowly , not wanting to frighten the child .
Maybe something good would come out of this messed-up day , after all .
Surely someone was looking for the little monkey , and Alvin would be hailed as a hero when he came riding back into town with the kid in tow .
Bob Lyle might be so impressed that he might look the other way the next time Alvin took a deer out of season or drove home from poker night with a bit of whiskey on his breath .
He reached the tree and stopped .
There was an odor coming from somewhere ; a foul , rotting smell that stung his nostrils .
He looked around for the cause—a dead animal , maybe—but he didn’t see anything .
“Don’t be afraid , ” he said gently .
“Nobody’s gon na hurt you.” There was no response from behind the tree , but Alvin heard a slight noise , like the kid had shifted around .
The poor thing was probably scared shitless .
Alvin supposed he would be , too , if their roles were reversed .
He peeked around the trunk of the tree .
The kid was there , all right , cowering .
It looked like a boy , but it had its back to Alvin , so he couldn’t really tell .
It was crouched on the ground in a kind of fetal position , with its head tucked down and its arms crossed over its knees .
It was also buck naked , and its skin was caked with dirt and grime .
Alvin realized that the awful smell was coming from the kid itself .
He had a sudden , powerful burst of pity for the child , followed closely by utter contempt for the sorry excuse for parents who had let something like this happen to their kid .
“Hey there , ” he said softly .
“It’s okay .
It’s gon na be okay .
I’m gon na get you out of…” The child turned to look at him , and Alvin Hobbs screamed like a little baby .
He dropped his gun and tried to back away , but his legs gave out and he dropped to his knees , his body convulsing with spasms of pure terror .
There was nothing child-like about the thing’s features ; in fact , there was little human about them at all .
It stared at him with large , black , bulbous eyes .
There was no nose , only two holes set into the face which might have been nostrils .
Its mouth was large and lipless , and the skin around it was pulled back to expose teeth like shards of broken glass .
It hissed at Alvin .
He stared back at the thing , horrified but scarcely able to comprehend what he was seeing .
He tried to scream again , but found that he couldn’t ; his throat felt totally closed off .
He sensed movement around him and knew that others were approaching , but he was incapable of taking his eyes off of the thing before him .
He was only remotely aware that he had pissed himself .
Something stung the back of his shoulder , and he realized that one of them was on him , its hideous mouth tearing through his jacket and into his flesh .
His paralysis broke and he was up instantly , reaching awkwardly behind him as he tried to dislodge the creature from his back He grabbed something—an arm , maybe .
The flesh felt leathery and dry .
Alvin took off at a sprint , and the thing on his back either fell or jumped off .
He ran , eyes wide , fists pumping in front of him .
The day no longer seemed bright and sunny—shadows moved at his side as he ran , and the sunlight cast a wicked glare on the forest .
From behind him came the guttural shrieks of his pursuers .
He raced down the steep slope he’d ascended earlier and had almost made it to the stream when one of the creatures darted between his legs , became tangled there , and sent him sprawling to the forest floor .
He jumped up , or tried to , but in an instant they were on him , weighing him down , ripping at his clothing .
He felt teeth as sharp as razors ripping into his legs .
For some reason , he thought of Wanda , and was sorry that he’d thought of her as being a bitch earlier .
She was a good woman , really , and he loved her and knew that he would miss her .
The guy turned out to be a romantic at heart , wanting to make love to both Maggie and I on a musty sleeping bag he 'd spread out in the back of his Range Rover .
It worked out well for us considering how many places there are in the hills to ditch a burnt-out douchemobile .
I had a couple of nibbles , but Maggie ate most of him ; to be honest , it was not as bad as I 'd expected , and while I certainly felt an urge to brush my teeth , I was left with a feeling of power that I 'd never gotten from my summer internship as a dominatrix for war amputees .
I felt like centuries of manmade oppression were being swept away , tossed aside like a meat-stripped shin bone by two women who were building enough confidence to stand up for themselves .
The strangest thing about that night was that after we had done the deed , we never once felt like we 'd be caught .
They had n't even mentioned the missing douchebag or the torched car on the news , and since Juanessa was a detective at Robbery-Homicide , she let us know that no one in the LAPD was spending much time looking into it .
`` It 's not some kind of morality play , '' Maggie explained a few days later while we waited for our waffles at IHOP .
`` We eat the bad ones and leave the good boys and girls to rest up for next time , simply because no one cares if the douches die .
Half the time the family thinks the guy 's just run off with a new mistress , or that he was into so much illegal shit it 's pretty much a given he 'd disappear eventually . ''
`` Have any of you come close to being caught ? ''
I asked .
`` I 've had a few close calls , but none of us has ever been arrested or anything .
We 're too pretty to get into trouble ... you know that . ''
`` That 's true , '' I said .
As far as the justice system was concerned we were all too cute to execute .
I changed the topic to Prop 8 as our Fresh 'N Fruities arrived .
Maggie then gave probably the best impression of closeted Mormon missionary boys making out that I 've seen so far , so funny that I even blew a little bit of syrup out my nose .
I was really starting to fall for Maggie ... big time .
And the best part was that I was pretty sure she was falling for me .
The best indication I had that I was now one of the succubus sisters was when Mia asked me to make a contribution for an upcoming bake sale , to benefit the teenaged victims of paranormal romances .
At first it was awkward as I tried to figure out just what kind of baking was expected , as I generally do n't consider any kind of raw flesh to be good in cookies or cakes , but Mia soon specified that chocolate was the most popular flavor among their buyers .
I knew right then that I had the perfect recipe .
I rushed over to my dealer to get started .
I baked four dozen chocolate chip cookies , going pretty light on the pot butter just in case any kids would be buying .
I was pretty well-known for my cookies back home in Bakersfield , having been in charge of the snack tent for the Police Officers Association 's Relay for Life three years in a row .
I would have done it for a fourth , but by then the Hell 's Angels had taken control of most of the charity racket in the Central Valley .
The secret is to boil out all of the green and then strain it through an old Kenny Loggins t-shirt before you mix it in with the butter .
Then you bake it , no pun intended , and you cover it in saran wrap and use a little bit of ribbon to make an attractive little bow .
A big part of it is the presentation .
I sampled one , just a bite , and I knew I had n't lost my touch .
My cookies would be a hit .
And I just could n't wait to share them with Maggie .
She was surprisingly drunk for ten in the morning , but since it was a Sunday I did n't judge .
She invited me into her apartment and after a quick session of doing what succubi do best , we sat together on her white leather couch watching the weekend forest fire smoke drift in from the southeast .
She 'd put fresh white lilies into the long-necked crystal vase she kept on her side table .
I leaned in and gave them a sniff .
`` They 're beautiful , '' I said .
`` Everything in my life is beautiful , '' Maggie said .
`` Especially you . ''
I blushed .
I took a bag of my cookies out from my My Little Pony backpack , opened it up , and then I passed one over to her .
She thanked me and took a bite , and I watched as a few crumbs tumbled delicately onto her spotless white carpet .
She chewed a little , then smiled , and then a little more before she swallowed .
She smiled again .
But then she stopped smiling .
`` Heather , '' Maggie said , `` I need you to be honest with me . ''
`` Sure . ''
`` Is there something funny in these cookies ? ''
`` Nothing funny , '' I said , `` just some ganja . ''
She jumped up from the couch and threw the cookie onto the floor .
`` Are you kidding me ? ''
she said , her cute little nostrils flaring .
`` What 's the problem ? ''
`` You just fed me dope and did n't even warn me .
Did you think that I would just go along with something like this ? ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
`` Do n't tell me you were planning on selling these marijuana cookies at our bake sale ! ''
I took her hand and tried to nudge her back onto the couch but she pulled back .
And then she kicked me in the shin .
`` I 'm sorry , '' I said .
`` We do n't have to sell them .
I do n't see why you 're so upset with me . ''
`` Mia was right about you .
I should have known you were trouble , but you 're just so goddamned pretty . ''
She turned her back to me .
`` I 've lost control ... perspective .
You 've starting sucking up so much of me I 'm not sure what 's left . ''
I smiled and shrugged .
`` That 's pretty much what love is . ''
`` I did n't want that . ''
She looked back at me and slowly shook her head .
`` I feel so stupid .
Goddamn you , Heather Smith . ''
`` It 's Smythe , '' I said .
`` Please ... do n't ask me to go . ''
`` I 'm asking , '' she said .
She looked so sad now , and it made me ashamed .
She was once so strong , that warrior woman from the drive thru , the one who knew her way around an aggravated assault .
But now she loved me and it showed , and she was standing in front of me like a little lost puppy .
I could n't leave her like that .
The other girls were worried about Maggie , wondering why she 'd left without saying goodbye , but they all seemed to feel a little bit better as my special cookies became the hit of the bake sale , bringing in twenty dollars for a net gain of approximately thirty-eight cents .
I think Mia was suspicious , so I took her out for dinner on a quiet stretch of beach off Pacific Coast Highway .
I laid out a feast of scallops and white wine on a set of Maggie 's porcelain dishes and Riedel crystal , all sprawled out on the sand atop a white linen tablecloth .
I knew after that there would be questions from Juanessa , so I brought her out to a picnic lunch in the scenic wilderness just off Tuna Canyon Road .
The tree-covered hills there make you feel like you 're hours away from the city , and I chose a place for us with a view of where the rugged landscape meets the endlessness of the ocean and the blue sky above .
I think she knew what I was planning but she did n't seem to mind .
By the time I 'd chewed my way through the entire group , I realized that something had changed in me .
I said goodbye to LA and the meth labs of the valley beyond .
Ads on craigslist and some rather mediocre fan fiction had led me to believe that there were more women like me in Portland .
I 'll find them and I 'll love them , and then I 'll eat them and make it look like an accident .
But I know that one day I 'll meet someone special , a beautiful woman I can love and mentor just as Maggie had done for me .
Whether I want to or not , I know I 'll give myself over to her , that she 'll be everything I am and more .
And then , if I 'm lucky , she 'll bash me over the head with a long-necked crystal vase and eat every last piece of me .
If I 'm lucky she 'll love me enough for that .
tHE zOMBIFICATION OF aMANDA hACKENSACK `` I WANT you to neigh for me , '' she said .
I had no idea who was talking to me .
I 'd already figured out where I was , from the smell of manure and the rustle of wood shavings beneath my sweaty running shoes .
She was giggling while she said it ; I could n't see anything but I could definitely hear it , the kind of chuckle the cool girls in high school use on pretty much every other girl to keep them in their place .
I used to do it , too .
I was doing it just a few months ago .
As he took shape in her mind , she could n't help but remember how it once was -- undoubtedly his intention -- and felt suddenly at ease .
'Yet even so , after all this time I still feel a failure . '
'Thus far we have all failed , ' the man said soothingly , his thin lips stretching into a grin as he continued to approach her .
'I’m sorry it came to this , your exile .
But it had to be endured .
Your loyalty had to be proven , not just to them , but to me .
I had to know your faith was without question .
even after this . '
Though it suddenly welled inside her , she stifled her rage , hiding her true thoughts and emotions from the mind of the other .
'Loyalty ?
Faith ?
It was my heart that you questioned , ' she thought , lowering her face to the ground , focusing her attention on the winding pattern of cracks below .
'You believed me a lovesick child , my emotions misplaced , my actions misjudged .
What I failed to believe was the depths of the Plague .
I underestimated the darkness , and for that I gladly suffer .
If it could change the past , I would endure this hell until the end of time .
. '
'Unfortunately , all that we have is the future , ' sadness coated his thoughts .
‘And even that seems to be coming to an end.’ Ages ago she had been deemed worthy by the Elder Gods to be a Savior , one who traveled to the dying worlds collecting the Chosen Ones , the children of the gods .
It was they who would grow to one day recreate what the Plague destroyed .
'And me ?
What of my future ? '
she cautiously asked , knowing that in light of her dishonor she dare not hope for much .
She had failed the Elder Gods on the elven world , Ki'minsyllessil , disobeying their orders to return with the Children , choosing instead to lead them into battle against the undead .
The elven race had been so promising ; immune to the Plague and virtually immortal .
It was n't until the Plague swept them all away that she finally understood the depths of the darkness .
No matter how courageously the elves had fought to defend their world , the undead continued to advance .
In the end , her efforts resulted in defeat , and the work of the gods was lost upon that world , their every last progeny taken by the Plague .
The elves .
Pupils of white within a pool of gray .
An entire race decimated .
After the passing of ages she could still see the eyes and knew that their white pupils would be burned into her mind for all time .
'You can join us anytime , ' he wearily replied , shaking his head .
'You know that , Alana .
The real question is are you ready ? '
Will I ever be ?
she reflected , choosing to save the thought for her mind alone .
Adros .
What have I done to you ?
'Despite our best plans , best efforts , the worlds continue dying .
We have all failed , and lost that which we love .
I need you back , Alana .
The Chosen are the final hope .
Without them , all will perish .
It is inevitable .
Every Child matters . '
For a time their minds were blank , as desolate as their surroundings .
It was believed that only by combining the efforts of thousands could the Plague be undone .
Every child they saved brought them closer to that goal and the hope that one day their ability to recreate could counterbalance what the Plague destroyed .
Despite her many failures , her time alone had taught her only one thing .
I will not stand back and watch as another world falls into darkness .
The Elders were wrong .
'I 'm sorry .
I can not return .
I no longer believe in your cause . '
'I 'm sorry to hear that . '
He was beside her , had placed his hand on her shoulder .
She turned her head and found his wide eyes staring up at her .
'Perhaps , with more time you will remember why you once believed , once cared , once joined to fight in our cause , ' he said .
His eyes , massive pools of brown .
She fell into them -- had never been able to look at them without being drawn in .
She remembered when she had first seen them .
Instead of falling , she had been flying .
A child , fragile and drowning in a world of darkness .
She remembered how she swam like mad toward those brown orbs , how they had shined upon her -- a binary sunrise on the horizon of her dark world .
Among the Elders , Anon was rumored to be the most ancient of all , and that he lived before the Plague , back when the worlds were one .
Even in those days he devoted his power to children , traveling the worlds not as a Savior but a Merri-man .
Though condemned by his brethren of the time -- for they deemed such displays beneath them -- he was somewhat of a celebrity among the worlds .
His performances had been legendary , though no living being had the fortune to see him perform , herself included .
Before the Plague , he brought joy to countless children .
After the Plague , he had saved but a handful from death .
One of which was Alana .
'For you , I will consider it . '
He held her hand .
'Thank you , Alana .
And know , that regardless of your decision I will not be , nor have I ever been , disappointed in you . '
Her hand was empty , her thoughts all her own .
Anon was gone .
A garden of white petals erupted from where he had stood .
Her surroundings remained as empty as ever , but she no longer felt alone .
∞ 'Is she ready , Anon ? '
'Soon . '
'What of her loyalty , will she betray us once more ? '
'I count on it . '
'Her power is unrivaled .
.’ Coming from her , it was quite an admission .
There was a time she would give no praise , especially not to Alana .
‘But I wonder , will even she be able to stand against the darkness ? '
she questioned .
Anon felt doubt in the thoughts of the other , could see her fear festering like gangrene of the mind .
A strange lapse for an Elder , Anon thought .
Strange , but perhaps justified .
We have but one world left , one chance .
'Who better than her , ’ Anon replied .
When therefore I will take the good habit to give of my soul that so much that I owe in exchange for their money to this race of people ?
If I want to be esteemed and from them and from myself , it needs that I/you/he/she show theirs that only my poverty treats with their wealth , but that my heart is to thousand leagues from their insolence , and situated in a tall sphere too much to be reached by the small signs of their scorn or favor . ''
Then R.P .
Malagrida did n't teach that : `` The word has been given to the man because can hide its thought ? ''
This motto , had initially followed her to the letter , involving himself/herself/itself from silver ware and discreet dame of class , giving smiles , beautiful words and friendly gestures to everybody , indiscriminately , also holding big part of them a mass of retrograde , devastating of the good taste .
But well soon him made account that its blandishments and its affected ways did n't get some effect on that awkward bipeds , for them it was almost an obligation his to do polite in their comparisons .
Dafne despaired him confiding himself/herself/itself with his/her/their husband that , also belonging to that world , it had the very different mind from the classical stereotype of rich .
He/she softly consoled her , he/she knew how to attend her/it as you/he/she would have been a father with his/her/their daughter .
It was ten years old in more than her , a small difference relatively to comparison of the average of the couples of their peers , in which the man sometimes surpassed the woman of thirty or forty years , but in that moments he assumed a way to do so much thoughtful and comprehensive to seem the grandfather of that small trembling creature that welcomed among the braccias .
You getting married was become him/it the queen of the kingdom of the Monteghinis that , of generation in generation , you/he/she had reached his hands .
When it encircled among the braccias his/her docile bride , it whispered her to the ear : '' You are the queen , performance your role of supreme commander , uses your acuteness of spirit for vain render their efforts to make you appear inadequate , it uses the them same weapons to turn her to your advantage .
Be friendly and kind , but maintain you in the same instant detached and haughty ; these are the best ingredients to manage the high society !
Assuming a frowning expression of boredom in the respects of the arrogant you will enact your sure victory on that annoying interlocutors , that will appear awkward and stupid to the themselves eyes . ''
It changed .
The suggestions of its man and its unusual intelligence put an end to the frustration had been inducing for those worldly times .
Once drawn out , its fingernails became the sharpest and the more feared in all the respectable living rooms of the new aristocracy .
Of those important evenings of galà the countess Dafne Monteghini became the undisputed queen , crowned by his/her usual expression from `` excess and boredom '' , typical insignia of his/her rank .
To the conclusion of an evening in which she had been worthy of the most scheming living room of the Tolomeis , Dafne you/he/she was still strutting himself/herself/itself proud of his/her performance with his/her companion , when this last admonished him with a tone of false reproach .
`` My dear , bushels becoming worse and astute than Lucrezia Borgia , I start to also fear for myself . ''
And her , him smiling and making him the purrs as a tigress that he fakes cat : '' My beloved , my powerful person Emperor , what effects with the others I have learned him in toto from your boldness in to manage the world and you/he/she can never twist him against you , six you that you establish the laws of this abode . ''
And him , protecting ahead her a look that tried to perforate her body to read her soul , it said : '' My sharp jewel , yours to say almost seems me a game of words .
Max Stirner said that `` the wish of the dominator is law .
To that they serve you your laws if nobody observes her , to that they serve you your commands if nobody performs them ? '' ''
You immediately assumed a wounded air .
`` When I have ever contradicted publicly you ? ''
`` You never meet yourself with me , you are more cunning , you trick me mellifluous and everything goes according to your plans . ''
`` Oh no , Charles , this can not tell him/it of certain !
What I push for my ideas because sometimes holds her more consistent to one determined situation , this yes , but that always do him as me I say , is not quite true !
You are the man , the strength in our duality , and I can not absolutely win you because , as Stirner says , `` strength precedes the right . '' ''
He smiled at her , fierce to have such a perspicacious damsel to his/her side , and it confirmed her : '' Yes , it precedes the right .
but , my very beautiful devoted , reach your purposes you never cross a right path , always proceed of sbieco and precede me ! ''
III Dafne , the famous evening before the plan that would have changed her life , it did n't have the suit control on itself .
It was all in his/her heartbeat , bellows and ears they were only passive boxes of resonance for the greatness of that ancestral hits that you/they originated from her breast .
She was incredulously subdued to that emotional ocean that invested her/it ; even his/her ways , always exaggeratedly artificial and measuredly staid , they rippled him , they were made tortuous and they cracked his usual crystalline vocalità .
Words pronounced too strongly stumbled before just on those said , you stammer and trembling .
Lost his/her rational faculties , abandoned the worldliness of his/her living room frequented from `` intoxicated penguins impaled by the themselves tuxedo , full of money up to the hole of the culo , so much that the merda has been forced to put her/it to him in head .
and those damsels made up that they fake to be , in front of their maritinis , white timorous colombine , and that in them absence they devour cazzi with the same speed that has in the spender money ! `` .
Just these were the exclamations that went out her of mouth dismissing himself/herself/itself from that crew of idiots .
Fortunately his/her butler had the adroitness to close before not the heavy door of the corridor , however , to have bumped volutamente a pyramid of wine glasses in crystal that shattered him on the floor with a spine-chilling boato that invested the room of the guests in the hope that this covered her exclamations of his/her lady .
In his/her bed to canopy the woman quivered to the idea to wake up him and to find himself/herself/themselves put make up on as you/he/she had been him/it the enchanting Cleopatra VII in his/her mausoleum , tidied up in the same way of the faraonis Egyptians .
Only that the beautiful queen had not had the same fortune that to her you/he/she would have been up to , of rimirar with what luxury and charm you/he/she would be introduced to the presence of the Death .
And then its actual condition was surely better than that in which Cleopatra poured just before to die , killed him together with his/her two slaves , Iras and Carmion , through the bite of a poisonous snake .
The splendid queen had run into the death after the defeat of his/her last love , Anthony , after the death of his/her/their children , and after a breve but devastating period of imprisonment near the emperor Ottaviano .
It had a quiver to consider to the fate of the divine queen which her so much was inspired .
Thousand times you/he/she had relived the play of Cleopatra immedesimandosi in that historical and legendary figure at the same time .
You imagined for the nth time the breast of the more aspired lover of the antiquity , covered by the wounds inflicted him of his/her hand for the desperation caused by the death of Anthony .
Ottaviano had seen her stretched out on a modest pagliericcio , with the ruffled hair , overpowered by the scorching fever sews together for the infections of those wounds .
oh , poor invincible woman , had happened her there that any to be female was able not to see how the worse one I incubate !
His/her doctor had assured that the artist of the morgue would have been put to the current one to owe only her to dress and to put make up on , using only artifices that did n't absolutely notch the inside of his/her body and the respiratory streets .
In that bed Dafne realized that you/he/she would totally be found naked and not conscious in the hands of an extraneous that would have touched her , you/he/she would have been able to look him under every angling without brakes neither inhibitions .
That thought made her/it blush as a child to the first interrogation to school , but then a hot flash of heat freed him from its abdomen .
It started to touch , as it did n't do from perhaps ten years .
Saint staggered as soon as on the knees it took back conscience of itself .
From his/her position in knee , repurchasing the clear use of the sight , him the usual enormous wall of books protected ahead him that entirely covered one of the four sides of its studio apartment .
On the right it saw his/her electronic posting again , the free sheets , shed on the floor , open books on batteries of other books from the gloomy headings , in Latin , German , Jewish , dressed again of worn-out skin and consumed , of ancient dating a great deal .
For an instant Saint was surprised when it noticed the pentacolo of bluish light that surrounded him/it ; then plain pian remembered everything .
It got up to work from that unnatural position .
Its body had perhaps been times planted there , inanimate and rigid as a bronze statue as a dead body .
During those circumstances he totally lost the human conception of the time , it became Spirit , able to go wherever .
Saint was what the ancient ones you/they would have defined a wizard .
That numerous years passed in voluntary exile by the rest of the human beings , you/they had brought him to increase immensely his to know on the hidden one and his/her ability of concentration for the realization of magics that , by now they had , of big long overcome the classical trucchettis that the common beings usually call `` magics . ''
It was everything to course of hand , united together , but at the same time every monade of that everything was fully autonomous and independent .
Saint was perfectly aware of the extreme dangerousness of that astral trips , the risk to lose in the endless one and not to succeed in returning back anymore was extremely concrete .
Of however he was lavished in that years to sharpen the stratagems to protect his/her individuality avoiding to be swallowed by the beatitude of the pure spirituality more and more .
Even if it dealt with beatitude , the case was not certain to definitely abandon its body when it was still in perfect health and able to give him the precious terrestrial emotions of which it was greedy .
He/she knew well by now a lot that , before becoming Spirit , you/he/she had to still tie to a terrestrial , to a thing that would not have been able to forget in that non material condition and that you/he/she would have allowed him to maintain a crumb of conscience of itself bringing back it the first possible .
It is really arduous thing a great deal to explain without being misunderstood what means to become Spirit .
The people that the meditation practises are able approximately , whether not to understand , at least to realize what you provoke in a being to transcend to Spirit .
The meditatore , when it enters state of trance , it has as the impression to go out of his/her own body and to wander through galaxies , epochs , and street talking .
This is only a feeling .
Him , through a vision clairvoyant , realizes the worlds and the external dimensions to ours and him you/he/she emotionally surrenders to this mirage .
When the apprentice of meditation sees himself or better his/her body from out , in reality incappa in a deceptive game of mirrors , because he to the effects keeps on staying in his/her own body , you/he/she is simply the eye of the mind to imagine to see him through a mirror that has really on the head .
This also gives the possibility to the profane to experiment the idea of Spirit , but it is rightful to underline the obvious narrowness of the experience considering that it concerns only his/her idea ; as to say , goes to the museum of the prehistory to have an impression of thing they were the dinosaurs .
The teachers of the soul reveal us the necessary conditions to be able to come into contact with what it is beyond our aware part to improve the confinements of the wisdom .
It is obvious that in our subconscious there is a conscience and a to know vast than in our small rational brain , a knowledge dictated by the millennial ultra earth that there sfama , from our Dna that ties our lines and our cells to the most ancient dynasties of the stock of the men .
Here that if we connect us to this the clairvoyance it is born , the intuition of the things that nobody has ever told us , that I/you/they are happened or that they are about to happen .
However we only realize her .
They are so vague things that , to perceive her , needs the absolute silence , of an iron discipline to increase our concentration , of an enormous sensibility and receptive ability to also warn then that messages through the intuition and possession the oratorical ability to transform them in the form of word with a finished sense .
Everything this happens to the fortunate ones that possess these qualities , even if at times they have even a Royal awareness of the whole inside job that completes the really me to propose him those intuitions .
As it regards the discourse on the ability to really become Spirit , that is a to be conscious that it stirs and it autonomously experiments , to put aside from the body from which has come , the thing is different rather .
This enormous and terrible ability , that almost nobody nearly knows , and that for the note the inventors of techniques of meditation , some occultists and wizards really understand , it has inherent in itself a divine potentiality that often disintegrates the body or worse still the soul of whom experiments her/it .
Those people that you/they know the procedures and the spells to activate her/it , the ninety percent of the times you/they have never lived her , they limit him to understand her/it and this already gives them an unimaginable power .
IV It rained to I hijack when , toward the nineteen , a long black automobile of American brand , pull to shiny , dark glasses , crossed the long avenue planted with trees that it brought to the plaza of the morgue .
The leafy branches of the oaks bent under him to the dense wind that contributed to worsen the fall of those icy drops and that foreshortening of sky to make still more leaden that was glimpse in the middle of the tops of the trees , perfectly parallel to the underlying road , that stared at her/it with its impassive look .
This time , however , seemed it almost had an eyebrow arched for the disappointment .
You was consuming an insult and the blue top of the sky above the deadly heads it did n't admit that him around his/her inhabitants took , the pierced ones .
Four bears disguised by men went out of the door on the back of the cortiletto of the morgue , the big auto it already had the wide open back hatch .
The quadrupeds extracted the metallic coffin from the auto and they leaned her/it on the cart , under to the vigilant eyes always of the driver , of the personal doctor and of the butler of the countess .
The four workers dragged the cart over the door and they disappeared crossing a long white corridor , antiseptic , illuminated to neon .
While the three companions of the countess hastened for reaching the workers , a fifth individual sprouted from a door on the side of the corridor , beginning with a monotonous and metallic voice .
`` Good evening gentlemen , can kindly sit down in the office for the documents ? ''
The three , cultured to the unprovided one , they obeyed despite .
While the doctor hurried the various practices , the butler drew near to the driver .
`` I do n't like at all this insane idea of the lady .
Know her/it alone , inactive and with around that zulù , does me really to turn the balls ! it `` said , almost grinding the teeth .
June 15 – 20:48 The phone rang again .
`` Who the hell is it ? ''
the girl in the Audi asked to the man dressed in blue linen in the driver’s seat .
They were parked in a cul-de-sac in the countryside of Labaro , just outside Rome .
`` Work , '' Luca said , straightening his trousers .
Then he silenced the phone and placed it in the glove box next to the gear shift .
Alida would keep calling until he got back home , which was what he would do if Giada let him go without questions .
By mid-afternoon , while examining some files , the physical need of her had overwhelmed him .
He had ordered the secretary to update his organizer , making up an appointment , and walked out wondering if she had noticed the bulge in his pants .
Come on , you can admit it .
You could not say no to a fuck in the car .
What’s the harm in that , except that you 've been married for ten years ?
When Luca had become aware that a quickie on the roadside was not even part of his early twenties experiences , anxiety to return home had become as heavy as a wet coat .
The sky above was darkening quickly .
`` Giada , they keep calling me , we have to go . ''
The girl looked at him askance .
He hated to be always the one who took decisions .
Not even the time for a fucking cigarette .
`` We ?
It’s you who want to go .
Or rather , have to '' Her blouse was undone and he could see the erect nipples in her perfect breasts .
Giada was fifteen years younger than him .
A difference which resulted in an unpredictable , stormy personality .
Worse than a teenager .
With a sudden movement of her arm , Giada removed the keys from the ignition .
`` I 'm fucking tired of letting you treat me like a whore you can screw every time you want , '' she said aggressively .
`` I 'm not starting an argument now , give me the keys , '' Luca said , buttoning his shirt .
`` And when are you ?
We’ve been hanging out for three months , always as it suits you best .
Not only you choose the days , you even count the hours . ''
Luca opened his mouth , but Giada struck him dumb .
`` You watch the clock every ten minutes , which means you’re thinking about your wife , cause she’s the one who drowns you in questions if you’re late for dinner .
You feel free to use me as you please , and always in this lousy car . ''
Luca tried not to , but he couldn’t resist .
He looked at his watch again .
Luckily , Giada did not notice , she was looking out the window .
`` How many times have we done it in a bed ? ''
she asked with a hint of sadness .
Luca ignored the question .
The night was about to devour every bit of daylight .
He had to hurry .
`` Will you give me the keys ? ''
`` I asked you a question . ''
`` You think I don’t know ?
Never , we never did it in a bed , what can I do if you live with ... '' '' I didn’t ask you to come to my house , neither I demand to come to yours .
But you could make an effort and get a room .
Any hotel .
Anything is better than fucking once again in the middle of the countryside , even a filthy motel on a highway , at least I would have something to clean myself with . ''
Luca was nervous and had trouble hiding it .
Why is it so hard to pull something out of the hands of a woman ?
He had to get the keys back , and immediately take Giada back home .
And also start to think of a good excuse for Alida .
Are you really so sure you are going back to Alida ?
`` It may seem silly , but won’t you like to have dinner in a nice place ? ''
Giada asked , putting her resentment aside to resort to an almost childish , naive tone .
Luca saw a crack and dived blind into it .
`` Of course , you know what ?
Tomorrow I’ll book at the Finestre , the restaurant of a friend of mine .
Have you ever been there ?
They serve fish . ''
`` Fish sucks ! ''
Giada snapped , immediately darkening again .
With unexpected speed she opened the door , went around the car and , standing in front of the window , studied Luca as if he were a caged animal .
`` Come back in ! ''
he shouted , tapping his elbow against the glass .
Inspecting the car keys , Giada noticed there was another bunch dangling from the keychain .
`` I suppose you open your house with these , '' she said , showing them to Luca , who did not answer .
`` You think I don’t know where you live ? ''
Giada asked with a smile , `` Via Matano 14 .
Or is it 12 ? ''
she wondered .
`` Never mind , I’d recognize the gate .
Green iron , in front of an elementary school .
I followed you more than once , and I even sounded the horn when you didn’t go at a green light .
You 're an idiot , Luca . ''
`` Giada !
Don’t you dare ... '' '' Dare what ?
Have a chat with your wife ?
I’d find her bored in front of the TV .
She would be pleased to talk to someone since her husband , so he says , is always busy at work .
You can even keep these '' she said , pulling the car keys out from the chain and letting them fall to the ground .
`` I won’t lock you inside your lousy Audi , to think about what an asshole you are , only because I don’t want to have you on my conscience .
I’ll walk away to call a taxi , no fucking signal here . ''
Giada vanished in the dusk , waving her phone .
Luca opened the car door , picked up the keys and looked out the windshield .
Still nothing , but it was a matter of minutes .
How could he have been so stupid ?
For no reason in the world he should have been there .
He elbowed the window once again , with the only result of multiplying the stars in the sky of Rome .
June 15 – 21:18 They could have found hundreds of fancier ways to refer to it , but they soberly called it the room .
During the week , the room door stood firmly closed , and neither Alida nor Luca , when passing by it to go to the bathroom , seemed at all troubled by the fact that that place of blood was less than three steps from their bedroom .
When Alida walked into the room , the rabbits looked at her standing still .
She couldn’t read in their eyes if they were scared or calm , if they were tired of the usual food or wanted fresher water in their plastic tanks .
She couldn’t even sense whether they were aware that soon many of them would no longer exist .
Alida and Luca never bothered to refresh the floor and the walls , and the wear and tear of the place was unprecedented .
Why restructuring the room if , when they locked themselves inside once a month , their senses were so altered that they would feel at ease even in the depths of a landfill ?
Only Alida set foot in it every once in a while .
Just as long as needed to fill the tanks of the rabbits with water and food , make sure that none of them had died in the meantime .
The room was completely bare .
The walls , as well as deep grooves as if someone had ripped them open with a chisel , bore splashes of dried blood , coming not only from the devoured rabbits , but also from the wounds Alida and Luca caused themselves to soothe their torment .
Who can spell “fire hazard” ?
The vegetation , scrambled scrub for the most part , was shrivelling in the furnace ; although admittedly the natives did it with a certain perverse glee as interloping species gasped and died .
This unloved space was the locale’s most attractive feature , and it lay all around me .
Sapless tree husks sprawled back and back over the horizon into forever .
I might not even have neighbours .
The track went languidly nowhere , a drunken fence capping the end ; and only one car passed me the entire way down .
A white four-wheel-drive oven , roaring over potholes like a mechanised thunder god .
Test drive our new off-road model .
If you can find the pristine wilderness , we’ll crush it under tread .
Dust boiled from beneath the wheel wells .
In its wake the ants went crazy .
Refusing to be put out I stood balanced on a tree root until they had returned to such calm as those nasty bloated bugs could get .
They ran over each other and everything looking for an enemy to bite , hurling burnished copper bodies about like projectiles on spindly legs .
I waited patiently , but as I looked down the path after the car my eyes glittered .
Set far back in a wilderness of scrub , my private castle was the most isolated of them all .
For a moat : one long , unbroken wire strand fence .
As guards I posted “no trespassing” signs .
There was no gate .
I would have even gone all out and ringed the lot with wicked barbed wire , if it weren’t for the terror of slicing myself while climbing through .
Nothing , not even peace of mind was worth that risk .
Lifting the top wire , I slid between the strands and pulled my bag through .
Then , safely home , I paused for an indulgent moment and closed my eyes to listen with pleasure .
The sounds and smell of this place , the rasping cicadas and violently quarrelling birds brought such a sweet smile to my lips because they were mine .
Had anybody been watching they would have seen the profound peace a proper home can bring .
My public face , that semblance of casual ease , slowly gave ground bit by bit to a pure and true calm .
It was in the uncoiling of my shoulders , and the softening of facial planes into repose .
On my own territory I reverted to a cleaner , younger face .
Home really is where the heart is .
It would have been easy for me to procure a beach house actually near the beach ; harder , but not impossible to find one with the privacy I required .
They would not have been home , though .
In fact , when I began my search I hadn’t anything in particular in mind at all .
Perhaps , as the advertisements say , a personal slice of paradise .
You would think with such broad criteria the shopping would be simple , but oh no .
The coast was literally drowning in whitewashed rotting shanties , aimed at the retired pirate market .
Full of ye olde worlde charm ( e ) , as though tacking `` e '' s to the write up made a heap of shit anything but .
Gradually , poor soul that I am , I began to despair – and to suspect the real estate agent of stringing me along for more time with her indecent eyes .
I came very close to quitting .
But then we came here .
Right away I knew it had to be mine .
The smooth amber paint , the smell of the carpet ; the very air told me .
Down , they sighed .
Downstairs .
The estate agent , who had Siamese twinned herself against me up until this point , balked nervously at the head of the stairs .
Instead of following she shouted down to me in a voice gone inexplicably tight and high .
‘Admittedly the place is a bit chilly now – hasn’t been occupied for so long , you see .
But think how great it would be when summer hits : a nice , cool house to come home to , with a huge cold stone cellar .
Um … are you ok down there ? ’ ‘I am , ’ I murmured .
‘I most certainly am.’ I emerged from the darkness with features fully animated for the first time in our tiresomely protracted relations .
The real estate agent , silly woman , positively glowed under my regard and began to fuss at her hair coquettishly .
‘It’s not about you ! ’ I told her irritably .
‘Pardon ? ’ I waved off her confusion .
‘How much for this place ? ’ She started fumbling nervously through her folio , French polished nails ticking through reports .
‘On second thought , don’t trouble yourself with negotiation .
I’m taking it .
Have the paperwork ready tomorrow and I’ll swing by to autograph every sheet.’ ‘But don’t you want to .. ? ’ ‘No .
I don’t.’ She probably was not allowed to just leave me on the premises , enthused client or no , but I was forcing her back toward the door .
‘Thank you for doing your best to be useful.’ Before she knew it , the real estate agent was out on the porch .
I closed the door firmly on her astonished face .
And then , surprising myself , I began to laugh .
From then on , my every free moment has been spent here .
Time snatched greedily at weekends ; whole weeks during converging public holidays ; and that glorious , glorious eternity off work for the big family funeral .
You’d be crazy to go anywhere else .
Wandering into the kitchen I drop-slid the bag to a corner and shed my shorts in a pattering shower of sand .
Snakeskin tight , they had to be wiggled a bit at a time over my narrow hips , gumming up as they went with an oily sunscreen-beach residue .
I wiped myself down with the shorts , shrugged , and then dropped them in the bin .
I’d never get them back to white again anyway .
Humming throatily , I continued to the fridge and popped the top off a beer .
Delicious : practically singing its way down my throat .
The bottle cap spun and clacked on the bench .
Next shelf down beside the tomato juice lay a dented pack of cigarettes , like some forgotten alien vegetable .
Sure , I wondered sometimes if it was weird to keep smokes in the fridge .
Best to keep an eye out for signs of encroaching kookiness .
But for me , that faint worry was offset by the simple pleasure of placing a cooled filter between my lips .
Imported beer and chilled cigarettes .
How rather up-market , how very swanky ; obviously not a hallmark of this corner of the globe .
Relaxing into a chair I could count one , two , three reflections of myself without moving .
Framed masterpieces from various angles .
The amount of time taken to position those mirrors just so did not bear thinking about ; it’s lucky I’m a determined man .
The seat’s four pine legs were bolted securely to the floor to prevent it shifting and ruining my view .
Smoke ghosts in triplicate roiled lazily from the mouths of my naked reflections .
Careful to keep the cigarette turned away I pulled idly at my foreskin , then traversed the lightly furred line from chest to navel .
Blond hairs glinted with red edges where they caught the light .
They followed a road across firm open land , over the smooth hillock rise of muscle .
Down across my belly , tracing the cocked cut of my pelvis .
That was when I saw it .
I almost dropped my beer , certainly the cigarette pattered to the linoleum .
My free hand clenched convulsively .
That .
Deliberately , with delicate care to prove just how calm and controlled I was , I set the beer down .
Damned .
Handsome features darkened with the same exaggerated control as I snatched up a tube of blemish mask .
Scar !
It was a small spot of scar on my hip .
Small , but a point of grotesquery given the immaculate rest .
A diseased detail .
A bitter memento from the one time in my life that I ever fell sick .
I should have been perfect , truly perfect ; and I damn well had been up until then .
Perfect was how I had been born , and was the way I was supposed to be .
The illness that ruined me for the rest of my life was chicken pox .
For days the body of poor Simon-the-boy , previously so smooth and noble , had become a tormenting prison .
Helen had brought by now his/her hulling away from the building , leaving that the office ripiombasse in the usual grayness .
But Cesana had remained alone for few minutes , since another visitor had entered silent , you/he/she had almost given the change to the new assumed .
He it was one of the little that could afford to intrude himself/herself/themselves in Manager Marketing 's dominoes without not even knocking .
Cesana had had only the time to lift the eyes , and the elegant and solid figure of Charles Pezzali was protected from now on him .
«Doctor Pezzali» it said amazed .
«I did n't expect me for this visit .
Not often understands that you teachers condescends you to meet us dealers.» Charles Pezzali was the manager of the clinical laboratories , a man of almost fifty years , of which more than half devolved to the search .
Under his/her guide , near the Furnaces Pharmaceutics was developed a creative and efficient team to image and similarity of the creator .
«I have seen to go out of here the doctor Elena Sastri .
Well , is it of ours now ? » The severe look crossed from the tall one that of Henry , still sat to the table .
These he felt subjugated by that rigid face , essential , almost graven in the stone .
A rounded off face but well few amiable , which the grey hair trimmed to the root and the leaning cheekbones conferred a rigor that well few granted to the liking .
«It knows Helen Sastri ? » he/she asked confused .
The researchers did n't usually interest leastly him in the assumptions of the commercial ones .
And , naturally , vice versa .
But there was something in that question that went over the simple curiosity .
It was as if Pezzali already knew the answer .
«Not personally .
I know that it had to sustain with her the last interview.» «It is exact» it admitted .
«Therefore you/he/she has been assumed.» «Yes , certainly.» «Well .
Very well we have made a good choice.» Cesana started to become convinced him that nothing in that interview by now you/he/she would have had to surprise him/it .
Nevertheless it tried to make to be clarified the ideas .
«I would not like to insist but I had asked her if it knows that girl.» The researcher did n't decompose him .
«He/she sees , Cesana '' : that girl '' , as you/he/she has called her she , is a young promise of the search , one of the most elastic minds and recettive that the university in Milan has given to the productive world.» «Search ? » It interrupted him/it the commercial one .
«But she is not introduced as researcher.» «I know him/it but talent is an universal value .
What counts is that none of the competition can take advantage with the best elements .
The genius is correct that I/you/he/she remain in family .
And on the qualities of Helen Sastri I have also had reassurances from the university environments.» «Yes , I know him/it» it hastened to specify Cesana .
«I have received the letter of introduction of the chairman of the thesis of Helen .
The teacher has been very flattering.» «I did n't report me to the formalities of the chairman» it specified Pezzali frustrating once more the colleague .
«That old baron is able only to put signatures and to box checks : you/he/she has seen Helen practically alone for the proclamation .
I report me to professor Emilio Ricciuti , the person responsible of the laboratory of genetics in which you/he/she has made the internee .
One that has had the opportunity of working to narrow contact with her .
It is a friend and you/he/she has been very persuasive : I could not disappoint his/her expectations , and I/you/they are personally activated me because everything went to good end.» A break , imperceptible .
Then a sentence .
«It was essential that Helen Sastri was assumed near of us.» Cesana boxed the hit .
That that one prerogative of his considered had been climbed over in so scurvy way .
«But she has never spoken to me of Helen.» Almost reading him in the thought , Pezzali hastened to encourage him/it .
«You do n't worry him Cesana .
I have not invaded his/her field in any way : the worth of the assumption is his .
There was no need to speak to her of the doctor Sastri.» It underlined the title and the last name correcting the unworthy excess of confidence of the interlocutor .
«You/he/she has been enough for me , as to say , to put his/her curriculum on top of the list of his/her candidates .
I knew that a bloodhound as her would not be made to escape the taking.» It risked an irony , so much less flattering than it seemed to Cesana , that smiled pleased .
«And so you/he/she has been , doctor» he/she affirmed with pride .
«Then I leave her/it .
I beg only me not to make mention to the doctor of this conversation of ours.» «Any problem.» «Well .
It will have the opportunity of verifying on the field the quality of the new purchase.» «Certainly» it added to the address of the manager that had already turned his back .
And once that these it overcame the door , it added among the teeth «I Hope to discover very soon it.» It was only now finally Henry Cesana , sunk in the revolving armchair in dark skin , with the lost look over the window .
Reflected in the glass , its coarse face appeared , a baluginio of vitalismo defeated in the green eyes ; a body in undoing , despite the attempts to preserve it that three times to week it completed in gym , a forehead that conquered footstep footstep the ground on the black hair in rout .
It was a man , a gotten married quarantenne , with his/her/their wife how much with the job , with a manager physicist marketing , that could idle about now in thoughts between the licentious one and the affaristico .
It was a winning assumption , that of Helen Sastri ; the awareness of this went over the discourses of Charles Pezzali , that its pride was starting to push in the oblivion .
And it also went over the open edges of skin of the new arrived , whose fragrance did n't stop inebriating him/it .
The bank drafts were excellent : degree with praise in biology , a popular thesis in genetics from the title You Drosophila as I model for the study of the human genetic illnesses .
A bright letter of introduction of the chairman , to plot the dowries of ductility , obstinacy and tenacity of the nominee .
He/she still remembered the first interview : from those turgid lips that were rhythmically disclosed it went out well more that the rigid exposure of a curriculum .
It was pleasant to feel her/it , since with the hearing also the sight , the sense of smell , even the touch , in short , the senses all were tickled by that presence .
Able to make to digest every rambling speech , every cold and boring computation : this is the makeup of every seller , this the makeup of every winning .
Since winning it is born , never he becomes .
Beautiful and winning .
You/he/she would never have assumed a latrine , even if you/he/she had also had best bank drafts .
But whether to be ashamed of it ?
After all it is what you/they do all , : this is the world in which is accepted in silence that the beautiful ones have salaries between ten and the winds for one hundred taller than the ugly colleagues .
Certainly it is not guilt of the ugly ones to be born ugly , he repeated .
But it is a defect of manufacture however .
In the marketing the defective piece brings him to the mother house and he changes .
In the life of the men , no .
With Helen Sastri you/he/she had chosen the best .
It was so easy to become convinced himself/herself/themselves to have done him/it for the good of the firm and not to satisfy his/her own lust .
That evening would have gone home , you/he/she would have embraced his/her wife , satisfied to have completed once more his/her own duty .
You/he/she would have dined , watched the television , put to nanna his/her children .
You/he/she would have gone in bed and the light would be extinguished soon : you/he/she would still have been too excited for serenely reading the newspaper .
His/her wife lain down to his/her side would have caressed him/it with the hands softened by a moisturizing cream .
Together with him , still vivid in the sense of smell , the fragrance of the young skin of Helen .
And she would have appeared under the covers , to the dark : you/he/she would have been that the mouth that at that time would have sucked him/it in obscene way , as he liked it .
You/he/she would have been far the heat of a kept body , for fear that the touch could reveal the deception .
You/he/she was suffered , the mouth welcomed subdued the product of its pleasure ; later it turned immediately him on the other side .
It fell asleep satisfied , emptied of every disturbance , neither it allowed that the smothered hiccups of a humiliated wife could upset him the sleep .
Chapter 2 .
It was a moderate day of beginning spring , an adorable season even in the directional centers .
It was a day pervaded by the indifference as so many .
As everybody .
A day articulated by automatisms as that of Helen to turn on the jail cell to few footsteps from the car .
You/he/she was gone out in all hurry of the office of Cesana , without not even being him turning to lavish a smile , a look , a gratification to the middle quarantenne that so much work had lavished for resulting attractive .
How many formal meetings you/he/she had already lived that still more than this you/they had shamelessly diverted toward gallant results .
It is to how much equivocal you/he/she had delighted to lend him , you want for ambition , you want for fun , you want because indeed bewitched .
It was a woman and it loved to enmesh , to dominate but above all to deceive , with naturalness and without wickedness .
It loved the pleasure , that rejuvenates the minds maintaining her fanciful and creative besides stimulating the senses .
But it was not this the case , neither you/he/she would ever be been able him/it to be .
Zero imagination , zero seduction ; and not so much because the poor Cesana was so worse of many that had tried to report him with her .
It was the context : in that hurry from office , the veiled offers of the doctor could not deserve winks useless , neither false courtesies , perlomeno not now .
You/he/she had been assumed , it was for now a pharmaceutical informant on behalf of the Furnaces and so much it was enough .
It was what wanted , from still before ending the university : the job and the money .
A job from which the money , without hypocrisies : to be to the world and to be well us , necessarily passed of there .
And a pharmaceutical informant does n't earn badly .
These and other thoughts trapped her/it in that angle of industrialized province , with a shoulder Louis Vuitton and a The-phone still in hand .
When digitò the PIN , was because the cellular phone started to weigh her .
And between past and present , in the immediate future a name , a face , a man attended to again have involved in his/her life .
You decided to recall from the index book that number : it made to flow the voices up to reach a name , the alone name of present baptism in an orderly list of last names .
A quiver the glances then in the hand , so much fleeting that she did n't even have the time to perceive him/it .
Steele smeared petroleum jelly along the area and stretched his skin taut .
He dipped the gun into a tiny cup of black ink .
The second the needles touched Cody’s skin , the singer’s arms clamped to the chair .
Steele worked quickly .
He could instantly tell Cody was not going to be the kind of client who could sit still for very long , that he was all show and no courage .
“Stay still , ” Steele said , grabbing him by the top of the head and digging the needles in a little deeper to emphasize his point .
Cody froze , the needles holding his full attention , and Steele slowly began to feel a rhythm coming on .
It didn’t take long for the rhythm to lull him into a zone .
Like any other artist creating a masterpiece , the world fell away from him leaving nothing but the work , the materials , skin and ink .
Art .
Cody squirmed and moaned quietly .
The movement and sound threatened to break Steele’s artistic veil .
He glanced up at Cody , saw the tears streaming down his face , saw the pleading in his eyes .
He was working hard , deep breathing , gritting his teeth , white knuckling the arms of the chair .
He didn’t want his fellow band members to hear or see his difficulty with the pain .
It was clear he didn’t want them to think of him as weak .
“Want to take a break ? ” Steele asked .
“No .
I’m cool.” Steele eased the needles off long enough to give Cody a glimmer of hope that things were going to get easier , less painful , then he dug the needles in deep again .
“We could use a topical anesthetic , ” Steele said , loud enough for the other band members to hear .
Soon they were all standing around the chair looking at Cody and making fun of him for being such a pussy .
“I broke my arm in two places , compound fracture , ” Cody spit , trying to defend himself .
“And it didn’t feel nothing like this.” Austin , the lead guitarist , laughed .
“Pain’s part of the point , man .
You can’t very well brag to the chicks if it doesn’t hurt.” “Yeah , it’s like getting shot and being able to show off the wound , ” Ryan , the drummer , said .
“It wouldn’t mean a damn if it didn’t hurt.” Full tattoo sleeves ran the length of both of Ryan’s arms .
To Steele , the work looked flat and unoriginal .
A bad imitation of Paul Booth’s living dead work .
Cody chewed his lip and fought back the tears as best he could , and it wasn’t long before his band mates and their groupies became bored with jeering him .
They looked around the studio for places to crash .
They sprawled on the floor .
Drank their booze .
Necked .
Having outlined the Succubus and its twin , Steele rose and told Cody it was time for him to take a break .
Cody immediately lit a cigarette .
“There’s no smoking in here , ” Steele said .
“Strong smells have a negative impact on my work.” Cody nodded and shuffled to the door of the studio leaving the leashed bleached blonde behind .
The singer’s hands shook when he brought the cigarette up to his lips for a puff .
He took short drags smoking the cigarette slowly and occasionally looking back nervously at the chair where Steele stood waiting for him .
He stared out the door into the night his eyes searching .
He was trying to formulate what kind of excuse would allow him to leave , come back and finish the tattoo later , without his friends .
He was trying to calculate how much face he might lose with them by wimping out and suggesting coming back later .
Cody raised his hand to his neck , pink with the abrasive aggravation of the tattoo gun’s needles , but didn’t touch it .
Steele watched Cody’s face turn from hope to hopelessness , his eyes moved from searching the night to staring at his shoes .
He watched this with amusement .
He knew there could be no coming back later without losing face long before Cody came to the same conclusion .
He’d seen this scene play out a hundred times .
Occasionally someone actually turned wuss , but the pressure was strong , too strong for even cowards to fight .
Cody stomped out his cigarette and trudged back to the chair .
He found his bottle of Jack , took several long , hard pulls off of it .
Then he laughed with nervous fear and sat back in the chair .
There was nowhere else to go .
“Give it to me , ” he said .
Steele was happy to oblige .
The buzz of the tattoo gun vibrating back to life caused Cody’s shoulders to stiffen .
Steele tilted Cody’s head to one side and quickly began shading .
Within minutes Cody’s tears fell freely .
Loud snores rose from various spots in the studio .
Steele preferred working without guests and without noise as they distracted him , pulled him out of his artistic zone , but he made an exception for rock stars .
They were the kind of people who simply had to make noise , even while they slept .
As Steele finished the last of the shading on the first Succubus and prepared to dress it , Cody suddenly stood up .
“I’m going to be sick , ” he said .
Then he ran to the sink and vomited .
Steele watched , waited , laughed inside .
Cody splashed water on his face , wiped his mouth , and wobbled back to the chair .
When he sat down , Steele handed him a mirror to look at the first tattoo .
Seeing the completed work , Cody actually perked up , flashed Steele a thumbs up .
Rock star strength outside .
Epitome of weakness inside .
Steele spread a thin layer of Vaseline over the fresh tattoo , covered it in plastic wrap , and taped it down .
Then he turned to start shading the second .
The singer was dotted with sweat .
His teeth were clenched .
His fists were clenched .
Even his eyes were clenched .
Knowing Cody wouldn’t be able to take much more , Steele worked quickly and completed the second Succubus in just over two hours .
Then he signed the work .
Cody let out an enormous sigh .
Then he stumbled out of the chair and nearly fell before catching himself on the table .
Steele lightly kicked each band member awake , told them it was morning , asked them to help Cody to the limo .
Austin offered Cody a hand , but Cody shoved him away .
“Get the fuck off me .
I’m fine.” He yanked the leashed bleached blonde towards him , leaned on her for support .
At the door to the Tomb , Cody looked back at Steele with humble eyes .
“Thanks , man , ” he said .
“I really owe you for this .
If you ever need anything just let me know.” Then he whispered to the leashed bleached blonde , and she turned away from Cody .
She took a few ginger steps toward Steele .
She pulled a small CD case and photo of the band , both autographed , from a pocket on her skirt and handed them to Steele .
He smiled .
He found it amusing Cody thought he liked their shitty music based solely on the knowledge he’d inked so many artists who performed it .
Still , Steele took Cody’s offerings .
The singer had earned that much respect .
Cody Slade arrived a bragger .
About his experiences .
His toughness .
A man who’d never suffered .
Steele saw it in his red tinted eyes .
It disgusted him .
But rites of passage transform people .
How did you know that something was going to happen at 3:14 ? ” “I think we’ve done this before , ” said Jeremy .
“I think we’ve been doing it for years.” He seemed confused , but then shrugged off his uncertainty .
“We’ll keep doing it until we get it right , I guess .
Do you want to hear what we’re planning for you ? ” “I just want you to put the razor down.” Jeremy looked down at his father’s feet as the man came closer , and he pressed the razor harder against his own throat .
“Don’t do it , Daddy.” Mark retreated a step and held his hands out .
“Okay , Jeremy .
Okay , I’m backing up .
Now just put the razor down .
Can you do that for me ? ” “Dad , I told you , this isn’t for me .
It’s for you .
He’s only going to hurt me if you don’t do what he says .
Don’t you get it ? ” “No ! ” Mark’s terror overwhelmed him .
“I don’t get it , Jeremy .
Please tell me what’s going on.” Jeremy nodded , his cherub visage turned wicked by the blade he held to his own throat .
“The Skeleton Man wants me to put you in the bathtub , and then we’re going to pour boiling water over you until we can peel your skin off.” “What ? ” Mark’s question escaped as a whimpering whisper .
“And if you can stay awake , then we’ll pour the chemicals on you.” Jeremy grinned .
“It’s going to be a lot of fun , Dad .
And you want to know the best part ? ” He didn’t wait for an answer before continuing .
“You’re going to let us do it .
You know why ? ” Mark didn’t know what to do other than comply with his son’s insanity .
“Why ? ” “Because if you don’t , I’ll slit my throat .
You can either die like we want you to , or watch me kill myself .
Daddy , I don’t want to die ; I know how much it hurts .
So you’re going to have to do what we tell you .
Okay ? ” The front door opened .
Mark didn’t want to turn and look , fearing that if he took his eyes off Jeremy then his son might hurt himself .
He hoped that his wife had come home , or that the 911 dispatcher had been able to track the location of the call and send police .
Instead , he heard several light footsteps running through the house , followed by the happy chatter of children .
“My friends are here , ” said Jeremy .
“They’ll start boiling the water .
Are you ready for your bath ? ” “What the hell is going on ? ” “My best guess , ” said Jeremy as he glanced up .
“God gave up.” Mark thought about rushing his son to steal the razor from him , but Jeremy seemed to anticipate this and pressed it harder to his throat .
The blade sliced the boy’s skin and Jeremy winced as blood coursed down the black handle .
Jeremy’s eyes welled with tears .
“Please don’t kill me , Dad !
I told you , I don’t want to die .
All the Daddies hate their babies ! ” “Put the razor down ! ” “Don’t come any closer , ” said Jeremy .
Blood dripped off his knuckles .
“This hurts !
I’m scared.” It was as if it were someone else holding the knife to Jeremy’s throat .
“Okay !
Okay ! ” Mark backed up a step .
Jeremy relaxed the blade , but the small cut continued to bleed as the boy cried .
“You need to go get in the bathtub .
Please ?
Don’t make this any harder than it has to be.” “This is insane , ” said Mark .
“I don’t understand what’s going on .
Why are you doing this ? ” “Because it’s what The Skeleton Man wants.” “Who the hell is The Skeleton Man ? ” Pots and pans rattled as they were taken out of the cabinets downstairs .
Mark could hear the children laugh as they filled the pots with water .
He heard them trying to work the microwave as well .
“He’s the man in the mist , ” said Jeremy .
“He’s the one that keeps the children safe .
He’s our only friend .
Without him , we’d be as lost as you , and none of us want that.” “Safe from what ? ” Mark was in the bathroom now , edging backward as his son stayed out of arm’s reach .
“All the ones that came with him .
The ones that will poison you unless we stop it from happening .
You’ll turn evil , like you did all the other times .
We can’t let that happen .
The Skeleton Man showed us what the Daddies do.” “What other times ? ” The bathroom was small , with a porcelain tub that took up the opposite side .
The toilet and sink sat between the tub and the door where Jeremy stood with the razor still pressed against his neck .
Mark backed up against the tub and staggered .
He grabbed the plastic shower curtain to steady himself and two of the rings that held it up snapped loose .
He fell to a seated position on the edge of the tub .
Jeremy shook his head as if he felt sorry for his father’s ignorance .
“All the other times we tried to save you .
You’re one of the dead ones .
There’s no saving you , but you can still save me.” Mark felt helpless .
He was a big guy , over 220 pounds , and he worked out in the basement every night .
His job kept him fit as well , and he prided himself on his physique .
However , none of his strength could help him now .
He often said that he loved his son more than life itself , and that he’d do anything to protect him , but now he was being forced to prove it .
“You’ve lost your mind , Jeremy .
Something’s wrong with you .
Trust me , I’d never hurt you.” He started to stand back up and reach out to his son .
Jeremy reacted as if his father was threatening to strike him .
His eyes grew wide and he moved back as he yelled .
“You’re hurting me now !
Can’t you see that ?
Look at my blood , Daddy !
You’re killing me.” “Stop it , Jeremy.” Mark cried out , but didn’t dare to move forward .
Jeremy dug the blade into his neck and cringed in pain as he shouted for mercy .
“Daddy , don’t hurt me like this !
Please don’t hurt me.” “Okay , Jeremy , tell me what I have to do .
Tell me what you want.” “Get in the tub , Dad ! ” Mark stepped into the bathtub with his arms outstretched as if to ensure Jeremy that he was being submissive .
“Okay , I’m in .
Now put the razor down.” “Take your shirt off , ” said Jeremy with the razor still pressed to his bleeding throat .
Mark did as he was told and tossed the shirt to the floor .
A chill came over him as a waft of green fog trailed across the hallway behind Jeremy .
“You can’t expect me to just sit here and let this happen , ” said Mark .
“If you don’t , then The Skeleton Man is going to make you watch me kill myself .
Is that what you want ? ” “I’m not going to let that happen , ” said Mark .
He got angrier the longer this went on .
Jeremy stepped back and leaned to the side as if listening to someone in the hall .
Then he came back into the bathroom .
“If you step out of the tub , or try to knock away the pots of water , then I’m going to kill myself .
It’s important that you know that .
You have to do as you’re told , Dad .
Okay ?
Do you understand ? ” “No , God damn it !
No , I don’t understand , Jeremy .
And then , the minute that you get there , they disappear and leave you all alone with nobody to talk to but strange guys who come up to you from out of nowhere . ''
The girl laughed again , more genuinely this time .
`` True enough . ''
O-Ball made a show of looking around the bar .
`` Where are those friends of yours anyway ? ''
The girl pointed out onto the dance floor .
`` They 're out there picking up wallets and changing lightbulbs behind that girl with the silver hair and that guy wearing the ancient army gear . ''
O-Ball laughed genuinely that time .
`` You know , '' he said , still chuckling slightly .
`` I 've been looking for a way to describe to my other friends how these people dance in their gothic style for ages .
But now that I look at it , I 'd have to agree with you .
Picking up wallets and changing lightbulbs . ''
He laughed again .
`` Can I use that line ? ''
`` Go right ahead , the patent does n't take effect for a while yet . ''
she said with a sly grin .
`` My name 's Crystal .
Crystal Reilly . ''
The girl reached out her hand and smiled warmly .
O-Ball shook her hand gently , inwardly smirking to himself as he mentally undressed her .
`` A pleasure , Crystal .
My name 's Michael .
Michael Davis .
My friends call me Mike . ''
`` How original of them , '' Crystal said with that same sly smile .
O-Ball smiled as well and took a sip of his club soda , trying not to let his distaste for it show .
`` So what do you do , Mike ?
Are you in school ? ''
O-Ball shuddered visibly .
`` Perish the thought .
No , I 've been out of the system for years now .
I 'm into sales and marketing . ''
Crystal was obviously impressed .
`` Really ?
I never would have guessed ... '' She broke off abruptly then , an embarrassed look flushing across her face , afraid she 'd offended her new acquaintance .
O-Ball waved his free hand reassuringly .
`` Do n't worry , all of my other friends say the same thing .
Believe me , I only dress like this on my own time . ''
He forced himself to take another sip of club soda before speaking again .
`` So what about you ?
What do you do ? ''
Crystal shrugged her shoulders softly and O-Ball absently took in the jiggling with a very quick , well practiced flicker of his eyes .
`` Well , I 'm going to the University of Manitoba in the fall .
It 'll be my first year and I 'm kind of nervous about it . ''
`` What faculty ? ''
`` Arts . ''
O-Ball made a face .
`` I 'm sorry to hear that .
`` Why ?
Have you heard something bad ? ''
Crystal asked , slightly worried .
O-Ball chuckled .
`` Do n't be worried , I was just playing with your head .
I can tell that you 'll breeze right through . ''
She smiled in relief .
`` Well , I guess we 'll see . ''
Roughly fifteen minutes passed .
O-Ball used the time to his advantage , pushing his nice guy persona on crystal just as strongly as he could .
He tried to learn as much about her as he could as fast as he could .
Without any difficulty , O-Ball began to win her over .
The DJ finally got around to changing the song .
One selection of blaringly loud noise was replaced by another selection of blaringly loud noise .
This time it sounded like the chorus of screeching cats had been replaced by someone grinding a power saw across a plate of sheet metal .
`` This is going to sound awfully crazy , ? ''
O-Ball said with a perfectly casual voice as he made his move .
`` But I actually kind of like this song . ''
`` This qualifies as a song ? ``
she asked with her sly grin .
`` Well , technically .
Anyway , what I 'm basically driving at is , would you like to pick up wallets and change lightbulbs with me ? ''
He smiled at her winningly with just the right touch of uncertainty to make her say ... '' I 'd love to . ''
The song was a long one , during which O-Ball slowly worked his way towards Crystal 's body in sensual , swaying motions .
She allowed him to dance closely at first and even smiled at him as they started to grind up against each other .
Peering over her shoulder he could just make out Daco , Dave and the rest of his crew making their lewd and obvious gestures from across the bar .
O-Ball leered then and decided that he 'd had enough playing around .
Determinedly , O-Ball grabbed a double-handful of Crystal 's ass and started to lean his face in next to hers .
Crystal placed her hands on O-Ball 's and tried to move them away .
`` Hey , take it easy Mike .
I 'm not into that sort of thing '' She said calmly , obviously thinking that he was just playing around .
`` What sort of thing ? ''
She forced a laugh .
`` You know what I mean , now cut it out . ''
`` What for , Crystal ?
I know you want it . ''
She started to look around for her friends while still trying to get his hands off of her .
`` I barely know you , Michael .
It 's way too soon ! ''
Her voice was obviously trying to remain calm and was just as obviously failing .
`` What 's that got t'do with anythin '' ?
I want you , you want me .
Where 's the problem ? ''
`` If you do n't take your hands off of me I 'm going to ... '' O-Ball took his right hand from her ass and grabbed a handful of breast instead .
Crystal screamed piercingly and shoved O-Ball away from her .
She stalked off the dance floor at top speed , pushing her way through the crowd .
O-Ball slowly ran an arm across his mouth and completely dropped all semblance of his facade before striding purposefully after the girl .
One of the more observant Goths tried to get in O-Ball 's way but took a solid punch to the teeth and collapsed into the crowd .
The crowd seemed to melt out of his way as O-Ball continued his chase .
Seeing that she was being followed , Crystal immediately picked up her pace and ducked into the women 's bathroom .
Waving his bodyguards towards the advancing bouncers , O-Ball stepped right up to the door to the women 's bathroom and slammed it open .
There were several screams from the pisser 's occupants as O-Ball entered .
In the underworld of the carnivals and sideshows , Morgan seeks to expose a fake spiritualist… but the ghosts might be real !
Wuthering Heights Directed by William Wyler Written by Ben Hect , Charles MacArthur Based on the novel by Emily Brontë Tagline I am torn by desire ... tortured by hate !
Plot synopsis / Review Wuthering Heights is a somber , serious , and tragic-romantic tale based on the 1847 best-selling literary masterpiece by Emily Brontë — well , based on half of it , anyway .
It was obviously the important half ( for cinematic purposes ) or this film version would not have survived for all this time .
Despite rankling from the ranks of literary purists , Wuthering Heights has remained a pinnacle for lovers of supernatural weepies .
It’s 1901 when the film opens , and it’s a bitter and cold winter .
A woman can be heard outside on the moors , her reedy voice carried by the winds .
A man by the name of Lockwood ( Miles Mander ) has just rented an English manor house called Thrushcross Grange in the isolated countryside .
His taciturn landlord , Heathcliff ( Laurence Olivier ) lives just a few miles away in the crumbling , ancient manor of Wuthering Heights — and Lockwood finds himself strangely compelled by the quiet man .
The new tenant is determined to uncover what he is sure is Heathcliff’s dark past and as the story unfolds , the movie goes back in time — to a time when Heathcliff was young and in love with the spirited Cathy ( Merle Oberon ) .
He learns how their love , though threatened and warped , never died .
Lockwood is convinced that Cathy’s restless ghost still wanders the moors and that she waits only for Heathcliff to join her in eternity .
Wuthering Heights is pure melodrama , but it is beautifully cast ( not only by physically handsome leads , but by actors who could really act — their performances sizzle… probably because in real life Olivier and Oberon despised one another ) and the talent behind the camera is stellar .
The dreamy , dark story is meticulously filmed with haunting beauty by Greg Toland ( who also shot Citizen Kane ) ; produced with panache by Sam Goldwyn ; and winningly directed by William Wyler .
Although Wuthering Heights has seen the silver screen and the small screen in several versions — many fuller , and more true to the book — there is something undeniably magic and electric about the 1939 version .
For fans of Wuthering Heights I also recommend : Rebecca ( 1940 ) , and Gothic ( 1986 ) .
The 1940s 1940 Beyond Tomorrow Directed by A. Edward Sutherland Written by Adele Comandini Tagline What these three missed in life , they share with young romance .
Plot synopsis Schmaltzy fun as three old ghosts ( Charles Winninger , C. Aubrey Smith and Harry Carey ) try to help a lovelorn young couple during the Christmas holidays .
Blondie Has Servant Trouble Directed by Frank R. Strayer Written by Albert Duffy , Richard Flournoy Based on the comic strip by Chic Young Plot synopsis Good help is hard to find , especially for Blondie Bumstead ( Penny Sinleton ) after she and her hapless hubby Dagwood ( Arthur Lake ) move into a haunted house .
Slapstick blends seamlessly with spookiness in this light-fare , appealing comedy .
Blondie Has Servant Trouble is the sixth entry in the popular film series of 20+ movies .
Earthbound Directed by Irving Pichel Written by Samuel G. Engel , Basil King , John Howard Lawson Plot synopsis A murdered man’s ghost returns to his wife to help her solve the mystery of who killed him .
This a remake of a film first made in 1920 .
Fantasia Directed by various Written by various Tagline Walt Disney’s Technicolor triumph !
Plot synopsis Set to the great works of classical music , this collection of animated featurettes is rife with supernatural symbolism , myths , fables , and yes : Ghosts .
Ghost Breakers , The Directed by George Marshall Written by Walter DeLeon Based on the play by Paul Dickey and Charles W. Goddard Tagline The two stars of The Cat and the Canary find love and laughter in a haunted house !
Plot synopsis Bob Hope and Paulette Goddard are back together again , this time dealing with supernatural themes with a smile and song .
Set in Cuba , voodoo and zombies are just part of the ghostly shenanigans .
Ghost Creeps , The Directed by Joseph H. Lewis Written by William Lively Tagline The story of men in the making by just plain American boys !
Plot synopsis Getting murdered in a haunted house may not seem like the best basis for a slapstick comedy , but The East Side Kids thought so and they made the most of it mugging , running , and shouting in New Yawk accents .
Rebecca Directed by Alfred Hitchcock Written by Philip MacDonald Based on the novel by Daphne Du Maurier Tagline The shadow of this woman darkened their love .
Plot synopsis / Review Rebecca de Winter is dead and whether her immortal soul intends it or not , her specter haunts the lives of three people : Her husband Maxim ( Laurence Olivier ) , her devoted servant Mrs. Danvers ( Judith Anderson ) , and most of all , the second Mrs. De Winter ( Joan Fontaine ) .
When we meet the second Mrs. De Winter ( who is never named , so overshadowed is she by the dead Rebecca ) she is a shy , mousy girl — but it’s just that naiveté and sweetness which attracts the wealthy , aristocratic Maxim de Winter to her .
He needs a change of pace after suffering Rebecca’s cold and haughty sophisticated ways .
After a whirlwind courtship , the two marry and move to Maxim’s family manor in England , Manderley .
Once there , the second Mrs. De Winter is mercilessly haunted by Rebecca — in more ways than one .
Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine have superlative chemistry onscreen , and the rest of the cast is wonderful , too : Especially Judith Anderson in all her sinister sincerity as the obsessively bereaved Mrs. Danvers , and George Sanders as a snide , vile character from Rebecca’s shady past .
This masterful film keeps you gasping with apprehension as the vines of mystery and suspense turn , tangle and twist to their shocking climax .
A few TV remakes of Rebecca have followed , but there is no “following” this classic gothic ghost story — it is the best of the best .
For fans of Rebecca I also recommend : Spellbound ( 1945 ) , and Don’t Look Now ( 1973 ) .
Spellbound Directed by John Harlow Written by Hugh Benson , Miles Malleson Plot synopsis Also known as The Spell of Amy Nugent , Ghost Story and Passing Clouds , Spellbound is the story of a man who loses his wife to cruel death and in his desperation , hires a spiritualist to speak with her .
1941 Devil Commands , The Directed by Edward Dmytryk Written by Robert Hardy Andrews , Milton Gunzburg Based on the novel The Edge of Running Water by William Sloane Tagline This mad wizard kills at will in Satan’s service !
Plot synopsis When the Devil commands…Boris Karloff obeys !
Actually , the title is somewhat of a come-on .
There’s nothing Satanic about this movie .
Karloff’s character is motivated by love , devotion and grief ; not anything sinister .
And despite what the tagline touts , he doesn’t kill anyone… not on purpose , anyway .
This 1941 black and white horror / sci-fi B-flick starts off with a wide shot on a cliff-perched mansion set against a New England rainstorm at night .
A woman’s ominous narration sets the scene , then we flash back to where the terror began .
Dr. Julian Blair ( Boris Karloff ) is a dapper research scientist working on a new machine that records brain waves .
His goal is to replace radio and television with human telepathy .
He’s discovered that a woman’s brain waves are the very strongest , and his wife Anne ( Amanda Duff ) is the perfect subject to show his early findings off to his colleagues .
With all the stuffy scientists gathered round , Anne dons a big metal helmet with lots of electrical doodads on it and a graph records the waves of her thoughts for all to see .
Just when it seems as though the Blairs on the verge of a major scientific breakthrough , tragedy strikes .
Anne is killed in a car wreck… but Blair becomes convinced that she is not truly gone when his brain wave machine starts picking up stray communiqués that seem to be from his departed dear .
In an intriguing turn of events , Blair teams up with a dark-hearted spiritual medium , Mrs. Walters ( Anne Revere ) .
Along with Blair’s deformed assistant ( Ralph Penney ) the depraved duo embark on a perilous journey to the underworld in a desperate attempt to bring Anne’s spirit back to the mortal plane .
The need for fresh corpses to aid them in their work compels them to move to a lonely , Cliffside mansion that’s not far from a cemetery — before long , the townspeople grow suspicious and in a rather amusing scene they wind up storming the home with the then modern-day equivalent of torches and pitchforks ( flashlights and two-by-fours ) .
But it’s not over yet… you’ll have to see this very short , fast-moving movie yourself to find out what ultimately happens .
While the characters are nothing new or different , and director Edward Dmytryk’s style is rather bland , the actors do their damnedest to add some dimension .
As Dr. Blair , Karloff starts off quite well-dressed , nicely composed and articulate , then after his wife’s death he unravels in subtle but obvious physical and mental ways .
As always , he commands the screen .
However , Revere is equally impressive as the cold , calculating clairvoyant whose only goal is the fame and fortune that unlocking of the spiritual world will bring her .
The two have a good onscreen dynamic , and Penney fits in adequately as the third wheel .
If you like horror about mad scientists , complete with gadget-crammed laboratories , covert experiments , and spooky séances , you can’t go wrong with The Devil Commands .
It’s not a great movie ( it’s a B flick , and isn’t considered a classic ) but at just over one hour , it’s worth a peek .
Ghost Mine Directed by Sam Newfield Written by Joseph O’Donnell Plot synopsis Three cowboys set off to uncover the reason for disappearing miners in the allegedly haunted town of Parker’s Dig .
Ghost of St. Michael’s , The Directed by Marcel Varnel Written by John Dighton , Angus MacPhail Plot synopsis Comedic high-jinks about a ghost who haunts a Scottish school .
Ghost Train , The Directed by Walter Forde Written by Marriott Edgar , Val Guest , J.O.C .
Orton Based on the play by Arnold Ridley Plot synopsis When a group of stranded passengers has to spend the night in a lonely rural train station , they learn of a legendary phantom locomotive that carries the ghosts of those killed in previous wrecks… will the ghost train be coming for them ?
Hold That Ghost Directed by Arthur Lubin Written by Robert Lees , Frederic I. Rinaldo , John Grant Plot synopsis Bud Abbott and Lou Costello inherit a haunted house .
Co-stars the Andrews Sisters .
Lucky Ghost Directed by William Beaudine Written by Lex Neal , Vernon Smith Tagline You can bet your bottom dollar it’s THRILLING - EXCITING - FUNNY !
Plot synopsis A hobo gambles with his last few cents , and wins a country club .
The problem ?
It’s haunted .
Old Mother Riley’s Ghosts Directed by John Baxter Written by Arthur Lucan , Geoffrey Orme , Con West Plot synopsis Mrs. Riley ( Arthur Lucan , in drag ) enters the home of an inventor , which is supposedly haunted .
One of several movies in the Old Mother Riley slapstick series .
Smilin’ Through Directed by Frank Borzage Written by John L. Balderston , Donald Ogden Stewart Based on the play Smiling Through by Jane Cowl , Jane Murfin Tagline Jeanette MacDonald and husband Gene Raymond in their only screen collaboration !
Their eyes met ... and they knew they were meant for each other !
Plot synopsis The story follows John Carteret ( Brian Aherne ) the lonely widower who lost his bride Moonyean ( Jeanette MacDonald ) on their wedding day .
Although he does have her ghost to keep him company , he finds a flesh-and-blood replacement in her niece , Kathleen ( also Jeanette MacDonald ) .
When Kathleen falls in love with Ken Wayne ( Gene Raymond ) , the son of the man who killed Moonyean , it’s all Carteret to keep himself from committing murder .
A remake of the 1932 romantic fantasy ; this time it’s in Technicolor and they sing .
Smiling Ghost , The Directed by Lewis Seiler Written by Kenneth Gamet , Stuart Palmer Plot synopsis When a man named Lucky ( Wayne Morris ) is hired to break the matrimonial curse of the much-widowed Elinor Bentley ( Alexis Smith ) he becomes convinced he’s being haunted by one of her former flames .
Topper Returns Directed by Roy Del Ruth Written by Jonathan Latimer Based on characters created by Thorne Smith Tagline Topper’s having girl trouble again !
Plot synopsis Cosmo Topper ( Roland Young ) tangles with the ghost of a cute young lady ( Joan Blondell ) who was murdered in a case of mistaken identity .
She wants Topper to help her find the killer and warn the intended victim .
Hilarity ensues .
1942 Man Who Wouldn’t Die , The Directed by Herbert I. Leeds Written by Arnaud D’Usseau Based on the novel No Coffin for the Corpse by Clayton Rawson Tagline An empty grave ... A cunning , gunning ghost ... and Michael Shane !
Plot synopsis When a man who was thought to be dead commits murder , no one knows if he’s a ghost or if he was never really put in his coffin in the first place .
1943 Ghost and the Guest , The Directed by William Nigh Written by Morey Amsterdam Based on a story by Milt Gross Plot synopsis Newlyweds Webster ( James Dunn ) and Jackie ( Florence Rice ) spend their honeymoon in an old country house that could very well be haunted .
Ghosts on the Loose Directed by William Beaudine Written by Kenneth Higgins Plot synopsis Also known as The East Side Kids Meet Bela Lugosi , this slapstick comedy pits the man who was Dracula ( he plays a Nazi here ) against a wisecracking gang of New York toughs in the halls of a haunted house .
Haunted Ranch Directed by Robert Emmett Tansey Written by Elizabeth Beecher , Arthur Hoerl Plot synopsis Thieves hide their gold on a haunted ranch .
Heaven Can Wait Directed by Ernst Lubitsch Written by Samson Raphaelson Based on the play by Leslie Bush-Fekete Plot synopsis Not to be confused with the angelic supernatural picture Here Comes Mr. Jordan ( 1941 , remade in 1978 as Heaven Can Wait ) this movie focuses on the recently-deceased Henry Van Cleave ( Don Ameche ) as he recounts the trials and tribulations of his too-short life .
Mysterious Doctor , The Directed by Benjamin Stoloff Written by Richard Weil Plot synopsis A headless ghost of legend is blamed for committing a series of grisly decapitations in a small English town .
Like many movies from this period , Nazis and skullduggery abound .
Thunder Rock Directed by Roy Boulting Written by Jeffrey Dell , Bernard Miles Based on the play by Robert Ardrey Plot synopsis A former war correspondent ( Michael Redgrave ) is despondent , so he sets himself up hermit-style in an isolated cabin on Lake Michigan .
Her mother , who had already started to leave , stopped in midstride .
She looked surprised , and no wonder : Adie rarely left a sulk until at least a day after she’d started it .
“I’m still mad , ” she said quickly , lest her mother wrongly assume that all was forgiven .
“But ... I’ll come downstairs.” “All right , ” said her mother , looking bemused .
“Go wash your hands and come set the table.” Adie approached the bathroom as if it were a dragon’s cave .
Her heart was pounding .
The bathroom light was out , and since the room had no windows it was as dark as a real cave would have been .
She snaked her arm around the doorframe and felt for the switch .
For one harrowing second she was sure that something was going to bite her hand off—but then she found the switch , and light flooded the bathroom .
There was something wrong with the mirror .
At first she couldn’t make sense of what she saw .
It was a strange crosshatching over the surface of the glass , so thick in places that it almost looked frosted .
It covered the whole surface of the mirror , from top to bottom and left to right .
After a moment , Adie realized that the marks were scratches , gouged into the surface of the glass as if with a screw or a nail .
They grew larger and wilder the further down they went , until at the bottom they became a nest of angry gouges that took up half the mirror .
She reached out automatically to touch the glass .
The scratches were quite deep , almost rough to the touch .
It would have taken someone a lot of work—and a lot of anger—to produce them so quickly .
Gradually , her mind found patterns in the chaos—and then it all clicked into place .
From top to bottom , side to side , the scratches spelled out the same two words over and over again , until they culminated in a ragged scrawl across the bottom : FUCK YOU FUCK YOU FUCK YOU FUCK YOU FUCK YOU Something moved behind the glass , drawing Adie’s eyes to her reflection .
The girl behind the mirror was almost hidden behind the destruction she had wrought , but it was clear that she was pleased with herself .
She smirked at Adie and mouthed two words .
Though Adie couldn’t hear them , she understood them quite clearly .
“I just don’t see how you did it , ” her mother said the next Saturday .
“You were only up there for an hour—some of those scratches were a quarter of an inch deep ! ” She was leaning against the kitchen counter , overseeing Adie’s punishment breakfast of cold cereal and milk .
For Adie’s parents there were pancakes and coffee and fresh-squeezed orange juice .
The smells in the kitchen were an exquisite torture to Adie , who usually looked forward to Saturday breakfast all week .
She watched wistfully as her mother sliced fresh cantaloupe and poured real maple syrup into a jug for the table .
“I didn’t do it , ” she muttered for the thousandth time .
“Then who did , Adie ? ” her mother snapped .
She had clearly lost patience with Adie’s protestations of innocence .
“Only you and I were in the house , and I promise you that I didn’t carve ‘Fuck you’ all over your mirror .
Are you suggesting that some criminal broke in and did it ? ” She looked as if she wanted to throw something .
Adie rather wanted to throw something , too .
She shrugged , looking down at her plate .
What could she say ?
The new mirror for her bathroom was delivered within a week of the old one’s demise .
Under her mother’s direction , Adie had cleaned and polished the room to a sparkling sheen , and the air was heavy with the remnants of chemical vapors .
The mirror itself was larger and more elaborate than the other one had been .
It had a beveled edge where the other had been plain , and a border of frosted-glass roses that Adie longed to run her fingertips over .
She stole glances at the glass as her father installed it , and watched as her mother polished it to brilliant clarity .
There was nothing unusual in their reflections .
She began to hope .
After dinner that night , she crept towards the bathroom with butterflies in her stomach .
Once again she reached through the doorway first to turn on the light .
New mirror or not , there was no way she would ever set foot in that room again without the light .
Across the flawless counter , she laid out her supplies : toothbrush , toothpaste , dental floss , mouthwash .
Then she looked up .
For one long , still moment , she stared at her reflection , and the reflection stared back at her .
Neither of them moved .
Around them , the house was quiet .
Downstairs she could hear the news , and over it her parents’ quiet voices .
Nothing was out of the ordinary .
Adie slowly let out the breath that she must have been holding for ages .
In the mirror , the other girl let out a breath , too .
The two of them smiled at each other and reached for their toothbrushes .
But as Adie squeezed toothpaste onto her brush , her reflection’s smile continued to grow .
In a moment it had become a savage grin , baring sharp white teeth much larger than her own .
She shrieked and leaped backwards , hitting the wall hard .
A towel rack jabbed her painfully in the back .
The thing in the mirror let out a shriek , as well , and then began to laugh .
Adie could only just hear it over the thunder of footsteps on the stairs : her parents , coming to see what was happening .
She wanted to tell them to hurry , please , help her—but the thing in the mirror had wrapped its fist around its toothbrush and was advancing towards the glass .
Adie threw her arms across her face just as the mirror shattered .
When her parents reached the bathroom door , they found her crouched amid a sea of broken glass , hiding her eyes and weeping hysterically .
Of the thing in the mirror there was now no sign , only a little flicker in one of the shards of glass , which might have been a trick of the light .
This time the mirror was not replaced .
Instead , her parents began to talk about “finding special care” and “seeing a therapist” when they thought that Adie couldn’t hear them .
She barely heard them , anyway .
She had discovered , to her horror , that reflections were everywhere .
She caught glimpses of herself in windows , pot lids , the blades of table knives .
Though she kept her eyes lowered as much as possible , she kept seeing twitches where nothing was moving , flashes of teeth out of the corners of her eyes .
One night , on her way to bed , she paused in her bedroom doorway .
Across from the door , next to the closet , there was a full-length mirror that her mother had bought for her at a flea market years before .
It was very pretty , with a carved wooden frame the color of oxidized copper .
Adie had always loved it , but since her first encounter with the thing in the mirror she had left it carefully covered .
Now the sheet that she’d covered it with lay pooled on the floor , and the mirror stared back at her unguarded .
Her reflection gave her pause , for she looked almost at death’s door .
She had grown pale and drawn from many nights without much sleep , and the skin under her eyes was so dark it looked almost blue .
Her hair was an unkempt mess , and her clothes were slightly out of place : she never checked her appearance anymore if she could avoid it .
It was no wonder her parents had taken to whispering about her when they thought she wasn’t listening .
The changes in her appearance would have startled anyone .
Just as she remembered that she should probably look away , the girl behind the mirror took a step forward .
Adie was out the door and halfway down the hall before she’d really registered what had happened .
She had just enough presence of mind to tiptoe back and yank the door shut behind her .
She thought she felt something tug against it when it was nearly shut , and had to hold back a scream as she wrestled it into place .
When it was finally closed , she grabbed a few blankets from the linen closet down the hall , minced back across her doorstep , and pounded down the stairs as fast as her legs would carry her .
Her parents were in the kitchen , talking in hushed voices again .
They fell silent when they heard her go into the living room .
“What are you doing , Adie ? ” her mother called , in that sweet , careful voice she’d taken to using lately .
Adie spread one blanket across the old tweed couch cushions .
“I’m sleeping down here tonight.” She had given up explaining herself , since they never believed her explanations anyway .
There was a flurry of whispers .
“Um ... okay , honey , ” her father said .
She heard him close his newspaper .
“Good night.” She stacked most of the throw pillows at one end of the couch , then spread the other blankets on top of them .
As she slid between the covers of her makeshift bed , she heard chairs scrape in the kitchen .
A moment later , the kitchen light went out , leaving the downstairs infinitely vast and dark .
“Good night , sweetie , ” her mother called .
“Night , Mom .
His scabbard’s bright polish and steel were in stark contrast with the rest of him then .
His once white tabard , with its high collar and golden embroidery , was a pair of torn and gore-soaked rat tails , dripping under the front and back of his belt .
A jigsaw of cracking mud plates coated his mail and his caligan glistened with the ghouls’ ink .
He tried cleaning the blade with his filthy garment and then on the muddy grass beside the road , but merely traded muck for muck .
Refusing to put the sword into its case that way , he left it unsheathed .
A rustling in the heath caught his attention .
The one-eyed , legless fiend had found him again , that half of a ghoul that had caused him so much trouble .
Slower than the others , it had survived the greater destruction and was scrabbling onto the road by itself .
Michael narrowed his eyes on it and stepped forward .
Then he raised his heavy boot and stomped the ghoul’s head into the cobblestones .
It splattered , like a black-gut walnut under a hammer , and the corpse went still .
Michael stood there , examining it , imagining that monster’s final moments as a man ; what horrors he must have gone through before the plague had claimed him .
Out of respect for the dead , Michael put down his weapon and knelt .
It had been more than thirty years since he’d last prayed .
He didn’t know if it would make a difference but there was something his father always said at funerals that seemed… right to say .
He mouthed the words first , assembling them from his memory : “Please , God , allow these souls peace and rest , ” “By your side , in your light , ” “Amen.” Ares snorted .
Michael looked at him , thinking about the way forward .
The town’s narrow lanes would be filled with restless dead .
Though unthreatened out in the open , his proud , white stallion could be cornered and overwhelmed in there .
Michael went to him , unbuckled the saddle’s girth and left Ares unbridled .
The horse could find his way home .
Then , picking up his caligan again , and almost sheathing it before he caught himself , Michael walked into Meroe .
2 Homestead A storm gathered in the south as John rode up the farmhouse path .
On his pinto filly , he sat head and shoulders over the rusty plants on either side .
His hair waved long and iron-gray below his baldness .
He was sixty-four years old , paunchy , and his white tabard’s golden circle sparkled in the sun .
Far before the house , the horse whined and slowed on its own .
John patted her neck .
“Shh , there’s a good girl .
Don’t run .
Easy ... ” He noticed distinct movement in the crops’ tops , about fifty yards out .
Clucking at his nervous filly and scratching her mane , he reached down and lifted his caligan from the saddle .
“Alright , I’ll walk.” He landed with a solid thump on the dry dirt road .
The horse pulled against the reins , already backing up .
John let go and his eyebrows went up in surprise .
She wrenched over backwards and bolted away in a cloud of dust .
“Oh , well , that’s fine .
At least you let me get down first this time…” The field towered over him in two walls of stalks to make a brown , windless corridor .
Withering leaves hung from those lengths like dead tongues .
John buckled his scabbard’s belt around his waist and called out , “Horace ? ” He heard something coming .
Drawing the long-handled sword , he called out again , “Horace ? ” Then he raised it with a form almost identical to Michael’s and opened the way , ready to strike .
Horace would have answered him by then .
Any person should have answered him by then .
The plants opened and John was shocked .
A small girl , no more than five years old , hobbled from the field .
Blood clotted in her clothes and hair as though she’d taken a swim in it days before .
She trailed smoke like a breathless fire .
One leg took her weight and wagging steps with its thigh-bone’s broken ends in the meat like climbing spikes .
John just stood there as she came , watched her take hold of his leg and bite into the chain .
Between his armor and her unnatural strength , her tiny teeth cracked .
He came to his senses , cursed , “Fwah ! ” and sheathed his weapon .
He unfastened a gauntlet from his sleeve and put his naked hand on the little ghoul’s forehead .
His ring finger was missing .
She ignored his touch and continued gnawing , the splinters of her teeth snapping in the pulp .
The gruesome grinding and popping sounds made it difficult for John to concentrate .
He was trying to open the way in her , but he couldn’t find it .
She was empty .
“What is this ?
I don’t understand.” His eyes began to water and then to burn .
He reeled back , choking and coughing , having taken a full breath of the smoke that had collected around him without the wind to blow it away .
Golden light burst from his eyes , nose and mouth and his throat glowed red from within .
He stumbled out of the lingering haze with the monstrous child still clinging to his leg .
In the clean air , the light faded from his face .
The decision was hard but quick .
John drew his caligan again .
With his bare hand on the grip and his armored hand on the blade , he placed an edge against the back of her small neck .
She ignored what was coming just as she had ignored his healing touch .
He pulled until the edge bit metal .
She collapsed , decapitated .
John turned away and flung his caligan into the ground .
He stood muttering and shaking his head as he refastened the gauntlet .
He hadn’t come home to the farm in more than eighteen years .
He didn’t know who the little girl had been , who she’d been to Horace… who she might have been to him .
Without looking at the body , he snatched up his filthy cleaver , shoved it into the scabbard and started jogging toward the farmhouse .
The old building’s thatched roof showed over the plants before the corridor opened into the front yard .
The door was ajar .
A tilted , wooden cart , piled with hay , blocked John’s view of the adjacent barn .
The wind in the yard , cool from the coming storm , had a savage stench .
The boots of a man on his back stuck out from behind the cart .
John hurried around and found a slender corpse .
A garden spade was driven into the earth just above the lower jaw .
The rest of the head was gone .
Bulbous , black flies boiled in the smoke between the blade and the throat .
A wide , dark stain surrounded the wound on the ground and an intermittent pattern of ink led from there to the barn .
John didn’t recognize the body .
Trying to make sense of the scene , he thought , Horace wouldn’t have been so slight .
No , he’d have been the one with the shovel .
He shouted , “Horace ! ” and waited , listening to the field and the flies .
If Horace did this , he’d have taken in the sickness .
John could only guess at how long a man could withstand the smoke without being able to open the way .
He followed the black trail through the barn’s gate , where the wind died and dust hovered in slanted sunlight .
There , a thirty yard toss from the body , on its cheeks and teeth beneath a bench , the severed head seethed with insects .
Dull , gray eyes stared from the scuttle .
John’s mouth was dry when he tapped it with his fingers to chase the bugs away .
It wasn’t Horace .
He looked around .
Dark little footprints nearby became more defined as they walked backwards into a broad pool of dried blood where a dead pig was tied by a rope around its neck to the slaughter post .
The animal had been bled , but not by any method John knew .
Its skin was torn open in sheets .
Flies lifted from the carcass when John approached .
Even with visitation hours having been indefinitely canceled , the great many empty spaces were hard not to notice .
He glanced over at the collection of five story dark gray cell block buildings and wondered how many prisoners had noticed just how few guards had come in to work .
Of course , all they had to do to notice would be to see that random cell searches had n't happened for over a week and lock down procedures had been in place for the last three days .
When the klaxon alarms brayed and the amber rotating lights mounted on the mammoth slowly moving gate heralded the commandant 's departure , LaShod watched his supervisor driving out very much in excess over the posted speed limit of ten miles per hour .
The young guard standing beside the gate watched the Mercedes leaving with a notable wishful look , as if he knew already what LaShod only strongly suspected ; the commandant would most likely never return to Bayonne .
LaShod forced a confident expression on his face and walked across the courtyard .
The young man was watching the approaches to the gate with a diligence that the captain wished everyone else had .
As the gate loudly began closing once more , LaShod noticed movement coming from near the library building .
The small rechargeable cart was whirring down the handicap ramp with Charles aka Crazy Carl at the wheel .
The old black trustee waved cheerfully to the captain as he drove across the nearly deserted parking lot and LaShod only stared back watchfully .
He did n't think Carl was crazy enough to try driving through the closing gate in a cart that could only do maybe fifteen miles per hour , but there was always the chance .
If he 'd had his way the old man and his assistant in the library would be in lock-down along with the rest of the inmates , but the warden could be a very stupid man sometimes .
Although , in LaShod 's opinion , delivering books to the inmates seemed beyond stupid ; it was borderline insanity .
When the mammoth gate clanged solidly shut , he stopped watching the cart as it continued off toward Cell Block-A to deliver fine literature to the incarcerated .
He saw the young guard standing alert , most likely because of his boss ' close proximity .
“Those socks you 're wearing do n't look regulation black , ” the captain said , having spotted nothing else to note about the young man’s appearance .
“No sir , I uh ... did n't have any more black ones .
That is , I mean I like the money but until everyone returns to work I just would n't feel right about leaving the commandant and you so short handed.” There was a ring of sincerity in the young man 's voice that almost startled LaShod .
It was unusual to find a guard of integrity .
He nodded and asked , “Your name is Rikert , right ? ” He saw the kid nodding and asked , “You started working here , when was it ?
As to why I came here ... well , sir , the unemployment agency suggested it .
Jobs have been pretty hard to find over the last few years.” The captain laughed ruefully at that and said , “Yep , they sure have.” “Sir , um can I ask your opinion about something ? ” “Sure.” “Do you think the commandant will be coming back ?
I mean , things have been kind of weird lately with all the crazy rumors and I just saw his face as he drove out through the gate .
And ... well sir , it looked like he was crying.” The captain looked up at the flock of geese honking noisily overhead and waited until they 'd passed by before saying , “This is just between us Rikert .
You got that ? ” He saw the kid nod and continued .
“No , I do n't think he 's coming back .
What 's more , I do n't think the rioting beyond these walls is going to pass and things will return to normal , at least not anytime soon.” “Do you think the rumors of some kind of disease or ... or whatever it is that 's making people go nuts are true ? ” He sighed and nodded .
They both stood silently for several seconds before Rikert asked , “What should I do ? ” “You seem like a smart kid .
Have n't you noticed nearly all the guards who have still been returning to work have also been kind of young ?
Most of the old timers , like me , have probably already decided things will only get worse and wo n't be coming back.” “But ... that does n't make any sense .
I mean , well , is n't this probably the safest place to be if trouble breaks out.” He saw the captain roll his eyes and continued .
“What I mean is , we 've got the guns and the inmates are all locked up tight in their cages except when they go to the cafeteria to eat .
Bayonne is sort of like a castle .
You know , like in the middle ages and crap .
We 're safe in here , right ? ” “Wrong .
Yeah , Bayonne is a big imposing place , built way back during the 1930s with its forty foot high granite walls .
But right now we guards are outnumbered ; very badly outnumbered .
This place may look like a castle , but if we are n't careful it could easily become our tomb.” “So , what are you saying ?
I 'm stupid to stay here ? ” The captain sighed , shook his head , and said , “You 're no more stupid than I am .
Which I guess is n't really saying much.” He laughed and shook his head again before adding , “Besides , where would you go if you left ?
Most of the big cities are going nuts.” “I 'm confused .
You say staying is stupid and leaving is crazy .
What do suggest ? ” The captain looked around to see if anyone was nearby before whispering , “I 've chosen a handful of guards I trust with a secret .
Can I trust you- no shitting around now- can I trust you to keep my plan quiet ? ” Rikert nodded and said , “Yes sir.” “Your shift 's up in forty-five minutes , right ? ” “Yes sir .
I get half an hour break before I 'm supposed to take over guarding the cafeteria.” “When your relief gets here meet me at the power station building , and do n't tell anyone about this .
I mean it .
This is deadly serious .
Do you understand me ? ” “Yes sir .
I understand .
I wo n't tell anyone.” “Good , now just act natural and go do your job .
I 'll see you there.” “What do you think ?
You saw Captain Shit Stain , out there by the gate , did n't you ? ” An inmate with a pencil thin mustache asked loudly as he stood at the bars of his cell’s window .
“Yeah , I saw them .
But , how should I know what 's going on , Vito ?
Maybe he wants the kid to suck his dick or something , ” the short heavily tattooed Hispanic in the adjoining cell answered .
“Jose , you 're so stupid it actually hurts my head .
I 'm telling you something is up .
First there was all that rioting and shit on TV we saw , just before they put us on lock down .
And over the last week fewer guards are coming in to work .
I 'm seriously telling you , something stinks.” “Have you flushed lately ? ” Jose asked and laughed at his own deeply appreciated sense of humor .
Vito grunted in disgust and looked down from his third floor cell at the deserted common area below .
The stainless steel tables and benches bolted to the concrete floor reflected the overhead lights .
It was just as empty as it had been all day , except for the guard who did his quarter hour visual inspection and quickly retreated back down the hallway to the office near the exterior door .
Vito was n't the only inmate that had realized things had changed .
For one thing the rules of absolute silence had apparently either been canceled or just forgotten .
Cell Block-A was awash with yells , screams , and even an occasional spontaneous profanity laced sing along .
Rumors always flew fast and furious in prisons and Bayonne was certainly no different , although Vito suspected the vast majority were total bullshit .
The most optimistic and fanciful bit of gossip was that Warden Massengail would be letting everyone leave soon because there just were n't enough guards showing up anymore .
The proponents of that one even went so far as to say the warden would require an oath to be taken , swearing that the inmates would abide by the law from then on .
On the other end of the spectrum , the most plausible and disturbing rumor suggested the guards and all support personnel were sooner or later just going to leave them to rot in their cells .
Vito did n't like that possibility , but was realistic enough to know it was by far the most likely outcome if things did n't get better .
There was a loud clang noise below and most of the inmates quieted a bit and looked down at the common area .
There was a soft puttering noise and Bayonne 's miniature version of a bookmobile drove inside and stopped in the middle of the floor below .
Vito heard hundreds of his fellow inmates shouting , “Hey , Crazy Carl ! ” at the old black man who got off the seat of the cart .
The old man waved as if he was being cheered by adoring fans .
Vito shook his head and sat back on his bunk .
George was one of the quietest inmates of Cell Block-A , and also probably the most hungry .
He stared at the concrete wall across from his bunk and could both feel and hear his stomach loudly rumbling .
His ears hurt from all the yelling coming from the prisoners , but most of all from the weird guy screaming almost nonstop in the cell right next to his .
George had wads of toilet paper stuffed into both of his ears , but it did n't seem to help very much .
He glanced at the wristwatch that he 'd gotten in the mail a few weeks earlier and smiled sadly as he thought about the girl who 'd sent it .
The young man had read the letter she sent along with it over a hundred times and cried each time .
It was still over an hour before they 'd be marched to the cafeteria .
He sighed sadly , placed another square of toilet paper in his mouth and chewed at it slowly and meditatively .
Something flashed brightly and he looked over toward the door of his cell .
It was Crazy Carl .
He was shining a small flashlight at him through the bars .
George weaved back and forth on the edge of his bunk a few times to build up enough momentum so he could stand up .
He was n't the fattest prisoner at Bayonne but was definitely in the top ten .
His nearly four hundred pound frame arose like an improbable neon orange balloon dressed in his inmate uniform and he just barely caught himself from running into the far wall of his narrow cell .
He breathed heavily and yanked a wad of yellow waxy stained tissue from his right ear .
“Book or magazine !
? ” Crazy Carl shouted to be heard over the continuous yelling , most of which came from the cell next door .
George almost asked which would taste better but instead yelled back , “Do you have anything about art !
? ” The old man nodded and went back to the bookmobile .
He rummaged around through a few plastic baskets and came back a minute later holding out two magazines .
They were just beyond George 's reach if he decided to stick his arm through the bars , but he did n't .
One magazine had a bright confusing looking splash of different abstract colors on the cover .
Randomly charred corpses intertwined with twisted fuselage fragments disseminating on the melting tarmac were usually the only charred remnants of a landing catastrophe ; well that and the flashing blue and red lights of the emergency service vehicles chunking over charred flesh and bone , crimson sinew splattering up into their tyre well’s glutinous and sticky like congealed sacrificial plasma .
He washed the images from his mind ; there was nothing to be gained from envisioning a deathly scenario .
On the upside , the wings were empty of fuel , so in this instance there was a good chance that they might just make it out alive .
Resisting his internal urge to rush to the cockpit and take over the controls , he instead chose to refasten his seatbelt and close his eyes hoping that the pilot would be skilled enough to land the 737 in one piece .
Seconds later the plane smacked onto the runway with such force that his teeth actually chimed together .
The pilot engaged full flaps and the fuselage shook with such violence Elias thought the wings were going to be ripped clean off .
Halfway along the runway they were still travelling far too fast to stop and he knew that once you run out of tarmac , you run out of traction .
The inevitable outcome was something rigid would bring the airliner to a halt .
Adopting the customary brace position , he placed his head between his elbows and knees and lent forward against the seat in front , so that if the worst did happen , he could be easily identified via his dental records .
Nearing the end of the runway the jet eventually started to slow a little ; they were still going to crash , but there was now hope of survival ; they might live to tell the tale .
The runway border fence exploded as the aircrafts nose burst through the metal boundary , slid down a steep grassy banking and collided with the central reservation barricade of Interstate 29 .
Emergency escape procedure immediately followed and the cabin crew took charge .
Elias snatched his holdall from the overhead locker then followed everyone else to the emergency exit at the front of the plane ; leaping onto the inflatable chute protruding from the door , he slid down to safety .
After gaining his bearings , he looked around at the dumbfounded motorists on the highway and decided he would hitch a ride the remainder of the way .
The Interstate was in complete chaos .
The huge body of the 737 was completely blocking the westbound carriageway and the outside lane of the eastbound , still he was headed east and apart from the rubberneckers , slowing the pace down , two of the three lanes was still passable with care .
Jumping the buckled central reservation barrier into the slow moving eastbound traffic , he stuck his thumb out in front of a battered looking old station wagon and the balding driver and his woman passenger kindly stopped to offer him a ride .
Chuck and Di Manson were on vacation from Pensacola , Florida and just happened to be passing as Elias stuck out his thumb to catch a lift .
‘Hey there mister , ’ Chuck grinned through the open driver’s window , ‘need a ride into town ? ’ Elias looked at the old man sitting behind the wheel and smiled .
‘Thanks…that would be great.’ he replied somewhat hesitantly , before climbing into the back seat of the car .
‘I’m chuck and this is my wife Di , we’re on vacation from Florida , what’s your name my friend ? ’ ‘Elias Penchansky.’ Elias offered his hand and Chuck shook it with limp valour .
‘Oh and the mutt in the back is Rufus , ’ Di piped up , ‘I’m really sorry about the old boys smell , but he’s been cooped up in the car for near on six hours.’ Elias stared at the black Labrador sitting behind him and gave him a sympathetic ear ruffle followed by a chin scratch .
‘So where you headed son , ’ Chuck asked , ‘downtown ? ’ ‘Kinda , can you take me to the Whitehouse ? ’ ‘No problem buddy .
Di honey , get the kid a bruski out the cooler , looks like he needs one.’ Di obliged and sluggishly passed through a cold bottle of beer .
Draining the entire bottle in one , Elias sat back and closed his eyes .
* At 11.30 a.m. , the station wagon pulled up at the front entrance of the Whitehouse and Elias asked Chuck to drop him off at the gate .
He now found himself standing alone at the gatehouse that served as the historic Presidential home’s first line of defence .
Walking up to the guard window , he flashed his NASA ID card .
‘Name’s Penchansky , President Bane is expecting me.’ The security officer looked him up and down then without further question opened the gate .
‘Get in the vehicle ; I’ll take you to the front door.’ Elias opened the passenger side door and jumped in and a few seconds later , the guard slouched in behind the wheel .
‘We’ll be at the front door in two , ’ he stated gruffly ‘now buckle up.’ The vehicle shot off up the driveway before Elias had the chance to secure his seatbelt and less than thirty seconds later they had come to a shuddering stop at the main entrance to the Whitehouse .
A few moments later , he was standing at the front door where he was met by a blonde-haired dwarf of Hawaiian appearance decked in black suit and sunglasses .
‘Commander Elias Penchansky ? ’ enquired the small person .
‘In the flesh.’ ‘The President is expecting you , follow me.’ He was led past some dodgy looking security personnel , then through a myriad of corridors each with their own security detail , and eventually came to a halt outside the famous oval office .
The small person knocked the Presidential office door , then devoid of any acknowledgment , opened it and ushered him into the large pastel coloured apartment .
The President was sitting at his desk and in heated video conference on his laptop ; the small computer screen image was being projected onto a massive plasma TV .
Elias could see that Bane was talking with his “film star” girlfriend Kimberly Honeydew , and all was not well on the adultery front .
The President made a “come over” gesture towards him then continued with his tête-à-tête .
Clayton Bane had been all over the front pages of the newspapers for the last four weeks since his secret fling with the Texan model had been exposed .
It turned out that one of his Senior Advisors , one Jack Conner , had turned him in for a high price and had never looked back since .
Conner had been “cleaning” the oval office six weeks ago and “accidently” came across thirty-seven emails on the President’s computer from Ms Honeydew , most of which were very explicit .
If they were printed out and somehow got into the wrong hands , they could potentially be sold to the highest bidder .
So Conner did just that , pocketing himself and his wife Briana , two-point-two-million dollars .
Up until that point , President Clayton Bane had been in office for three years , and up until six weeks ago , the forty-eight-year-old farmer’s son from Iowa , did not have a single known blemish on his political record .
Now though , he found himself on a damage limitation exercise to try and keep his job , not to mention what he had to do to pacify his wife Sally and teenage daughter Kelsy .
‘Well you’re going !
And that’s that !
A car will pick you up tonight around six ; make sure you’re ready bitch !
Or so help me god , I’ll finish you without a flicker.’ Clayton slammed down the screen of his laptop cutting off the image of Kimberly with her face in a twist .
Elias sat himself down in one of the red leather chairs in front of the Presidential desk and now found himself staring at the sorry ass sight that was President Clayton Bane .
How could such a fit and athletic former SOCOM Marine turn into this panicky sweating bulbous oaf… ?
And the comb over hair… let it go already , you’re BALD !
‘Elias , how’s it going , what you been up to ? ’ Bane asked , his chubby face turning a deeper shade of red .
‘I am just fine Clayton and I’ve not been up to anything , which is more than I can say for you .
I read all about your little fling with Ms Honeydew.’ ‘Ah , your familiar with her work then Elias , so what do you think of her…quite a piece of talent eh ? ’ he teased .
The animosity between the two men was overwhelmingly apparent , and as both stared at each other with obvious distrust , both knew the wounds that lay in their past would take a long time to heal .
The main bone of contention was “the Mallorca incident” .
Elias felt he had been left to take all the flak for what had happened all those years ago , and Clayton chastising him for making a fuss over apparently nothing , did not help matters any .
Both men had been on special operations back in 94’ and were posted together on a top-secret mission .
They were dropped under the cover of darkness into a town called Magaluf in the Spanish Balearic island of Mallorca and their mission was to find and extract two high-ranking U.S. navy officers that had gone “missing” while on leave in the town .
All Elias and Clayton had to go on were two names scribbled onto the back of two old photographs , the officer’s identities being strictly classified because of their rank and position , made it impossible for the operatives to simply go around showing the snapshots to all and sundry on the street asking if they recognized them .
Executive officer Captain Dan Lyons and Command Master Chief Jimi ‘The Hitman’ Hope were notorious womanisers and drunkards , so it was no surprise to Elias that they were the sailors in question .
Elias and Clayton had been dropped off in the centre of town by U.S. secret service agents who were working in the region nearby , and it took them almost four hours of crawling through the myriad of bars and clubs until they eventually found the AWOL officer’s in a rundown strip joint called Fantasy Nine .
What went down in the following hour adversely affected both men forever .
Elias and Clayton opened the front door of the club and were instantly confronted by two naked women , a heavyset well-rounded blonde thing with astronomically pimped-out hubcaps and a skinny brittle boned redhead that looked like she survived solely on lettuce and baby-gravy .
Elias then pulled out his ID and flashed it to the hookers .
‘We’re here on official Navy business ! ’ He remembered shouting out over the outflowing din , before both foetid senoritas had ogled him and Clayton up and down .
‘I think you boys might have the wrong club.’ The lumpy blonde one had then suggested .
‘You’ll be looking for club Big-Boy , its three streets down on the left.’ In no mood to be chastised , they had barged past the fishy welcoming committee to take in the full revulsion of their surroundings .
Naked women were dancing everywhere they looked .
They were on the tables , on the dance floor , at the bar and in the darkly lit meandering aisles in front of them .
They were in cages high up in the rafters and in sordid candlelit booths protruding from the filthy encircling walls .
Neither had ever encountered such depraved behaviour in public before ; with the exception of Navy training camp , but that was just men and boys having fun and bonding .
Suddenly out of nowhere , Clayton just freaked out , withdrew his weapon , and locked the arms infrared sight to the top of a glittering disco ball affixed to centre of the ceiling .
He then began to let loose the guns full load against its shimmering circumference .
Hysteria ensued .
Throngs of semi-clad and completely naked women and their clientele began fleeing from the club through every exit , and miraculously , within all of that mass of naked quivering flesh and petrified patrons , Elias managed to spot the two AWOL officers lying impassive in a small booth in the corner of the room .
The operatives barged their way through the panic- stricken crowd eventually tunnelling their way over towards the booth where the two officers lay comatose .
The two-man rescue party then hoisted the used up navy men onto their shoulders and swiftly carried their dead-weighted bodies out from the seedy club and into the balmy August evening air .
The street was in chaos , and the wailing sound of police sirens could be heard only a few blocks away .
It was at that moment Elias took charge .
He ran out in front of a passing taxi , stopped it dead in its tracks , and threw open the back door .
After dumping the officer , he was laden with onto the back seat , he’d yelled across at Clayton to do the same thing with his man .
Once all were safely inside the cab , Elias ordered the driver to take then to Palma harbour .
Just under an hour later , the taxi reached the dockside where the sailors ship – the USS George Washington - was in port .
Elias and Clayton extracted the two drunken officers from the cab , laid their inebriated bodies down on the pier and then paid the driver his fare – plus a fruitful tip to keep things hush-hush .
After the cab had pulled away Clayton Bane had turned towards Elias with an ear to ear grin .
‘Well that all worked out fine… didn’t It ? ’ he had quaffed ignorantly .
‘Worked out fine , is that what you just said , worked out fine ? ’ Elias had raged .
‘You’re a freakin’ liability Bane !
You lost the plot soldier and if it wasn’t for my resilience and quick thinking we’d both be locked up in a Spanish jail cell by now.’ Bane’s grin then eased slightly .
‘What’s the matter Penchansky , you afraid of a little excitement , a little adrenalin pumping through your veins ? ’ Elias could no longer hold back his anger and swiftly withdrew his weapon before jamming the business end firmly against Bane’s chest .
‘You gon na ’ shoot me ? ’ Bane had smirked .
Elias instantly pulled back the pistols hammer , stared directly into Clayton Bane’s eyes , and pulled the trigger .
The resulting explosion was deafening and caused both men to tumble back off their feet and clatter onto the damp concrete dockside .
It took Bane a further few moments to realise that indeed , he had not been shot , but humiliatingly , the shockwave of the detonation had still caused him to empty his bowels into his pants .
‘Blanks asshole there just blanks.’ Elias had hollered over to the pathetic and now rancid smelling , Clayton Bane .
Elias got to his feet , and just as he was about to lend a helping hand to his now demeaned and grounded comrade , all hell broke loose from above .
The sound of the gunshot must have alerted the ships watch crew who were now frantically manning their stations in regulation time .
Suddenly the whole dockside was illuminated with the blinding incandescence of a searchlight and within seconds , the light operator had the perpetrators of the ruckus in his sights .
The speaker was one of himselves .
He was smiling at him invitingly , and the experience was neither shocking nor confusing .
Daniel let himself continue to speak .
“You should go to the old canyon lands and mesas .
Go see the parks…” his self cooed convincingly and smiled as he did so .
The doppelganger maintained his touch on Daniel’s shoulders as he stepped around his back and then smiled into Daniel’s left ear .
This time however , the voice was deeper…and older .
It sounded much like an interview he’d heard a very old Native American give on television recently .
It sparked of wisdom and was soothing , while the voice became raspy at the same time .
Daniel’s eye rolled to the left and caught the glimpse of a tall Indian wearing a black cowboy hat replete with eagle feathers in the band and some dull rancher’s clothes .
As the Indian gestured to the left , the south , Daniel’s mind clarified for him , his vision was whisked through valleys and then into canyons rapidly , as though flying in a plane at incredible speeds .
The terrain was changing from the softened and forested Rockies he lived in to red rocks and odd crevices in the earth .
As his vision moved on towards grand peaks just beyond the canyons and rifts it seemed to swerve and swoop from side to side and then delve in amongst the ridges and fins of rock standing up from the earth in defiance of gravity .
It was a beautiful and inspiring view of places he’d only seen in post cards and magazines before ; places he thought must be in the Goblin Valley , Canyonlands National Park , the Grand Canyon and other places nearly inhospitable to humans , yet comforting for that very same reason .
The moving vision had not yet found a place to rest , nor to focus on when it came to an end .
“You should go see the Mesas and canyons , ” said the Indian .
“You should go find her…” At that moment Daniel sat bolt upright in his bed and said rather loudly , “Who ?
! ” ~~~ When sleep did return in the early morning , a new dream took the place of the friendly guide .
He could see nothing but a shadow moving around him , never fully taking form .
But it spoke to him .
Stay here !
it would say to him .
Daniel sensed a vague threat behind it too and it chilled him .
After what little morning light arose to wake him , he found himself in a cold sweat and quickly showered to pull himself out of the dream world .
December 4 Heading South It took an extra day for Daniel to really make a determination about a trip to the south to tour some of the parks .
As he searched the web for places to stay and things to visit he settled on two parks in particular that he wanted to see : Arches National Park in the south east corner of Utah ; Mesa Verde in the south west corner of Colorado .
If he felt there was time he’d drive around to a few other places as well including the scenic loop through Silverton and Durango , Colorado .
Perhaps the Grand Canyon and some of the other parks and historical markers would make it into his digital camera as well .
But the one place that caught his attention the most was Mesa Verde .
It was almost the first place that came up in his searches for parks and an image of a cliff dwelling along the mesas had haunted him until he made the final decision he was going to go .
Camping supplies wouldn’t be hard for him to come by although he didn’t have a tent .
When he looked into places to stay he decided to rent a cabin at a KOA in Cortez because he knew he would need some heat at night , even if the dreary weather had kept temperatures above normal .
It was more expensive than he wanted to spend with his remaining severance pay savings but it had a wireless internet connection and electricity to each site and would serve him rather well as a base of operations .
Weather was not going to be a problem .
The Mesa Verde National Park website indicated normal high temps for December were in the 40s and 50s , but when he 'd called for information the answering ranger said they had had a lot of rain with daytime temperatures still in the 60s on the mesa top .
The policies of the park required pre-arranged Ranger-escorted trips down into the cliff dwellings during the fall and winter , so he proceeded to book tours on the sixth , one to the spruce tree house dwelling and another to the cliff palace .
The rest of the exhibits along the mesa top roads were all open for visits and even the museum had stayed open a little extra longer since they were still getting visitors in this unusual weather .
Cortez , Colorado should also have been in the 40s for highs in December but the KOA director said he 'd seen nothing but 60s for highs , dipping into upper 30s at night .
He indicated a heated camper trailer or a tent heater would be wise , but he had a few campers who had been doing fine without either .
Dan figured the little kerosene heater he’d kept from his trips he spent with his late wife should be plenty .
A few preparations for the trip went a little askew as Daniel started preparing .
The day before , December third , he’d ask a neighbor who lived on the cul-de-sac behind him if he had any fuel he could use for his heater and lamp .
He knew David liked to camp a lot and always had half-filled “extras” of just about anything one could need while camping .
But when David answered the door bell that evening something was not right .
Daniel thought at first it may be that David was drunk , or perhaps drugged .
The conversation had not gone well .
“Yes ? ” David inquired .
…Unusual because when Dan visited the greetings were much less formal and David usually was pleased to see him .
“Uh , hi David , ” Daniel started .
“I was wondering if you happened to have a little left over kerosene I could use for the next couple weeks while I go on a little trip ? ” David stared for a minute , seemingly trying to focus his eyes in the drizzly rain and early dusk of December .
Finally , “Do I know you ? ” Daniel’s reply was a somewhat startled blurt .
“It’s me , Dan .
…I…uh…I know I haven’t seen you for a little while because of the rain , but I was just hoping you might have some camping gear I could borrow.” “Dan ? ” David stopped to ponder a moment , his eyes rolling around at their feet while he considered .
“Dan Tremon…from the next street over ? ” “Yes ! ” Daniel said with a bit of a laugh , but feeling no real humor .
“Of course ! ” “Oh.” David’s voice was rather listless and uninterested after that .
“I don’t really remember you very well for some reason .
But I guess you could borrow my kerosene bucket…that shouldn’t be a problem .
Let me go open the garage.” As the front door closed on Daniel , he stepped off the porch and moved around to the garage door .
He attempted to stay as much under the protection of the eaves as he could to stay dry .
The door didn’t open very soon .
He had just about decided David got lost on his way through the house to open it and was going to give up when it finally started moving and the motor driving the belt made its buzz while it worked .
In the rain and dark the motor itself sounded tired and straining to do the job .
Once the garage door was up and Daniel stepped in he found David standing mid-way down the steps from the house into the garage and his wife , Ruth , was holding the door into the kitchen slightly open above him .
David looked about a little but never looked at Daniel directly as he gestured and explained to his wife .
“This is David…from around the corner .
He just came to borrow something.” Ruth replied quietly , “Oh , yes…I think I remember.” Ruth and David had hosted Daniel and occasionally a female friend from work to a couple dinner parties in their home and once an all-day Saturday marathon and critique of the Lord of the Rings movies while they avoided the July heat just this past summer .
Certainly Ruth should remember Daniel .
He was , in fact , beginning to feel ill-at-ease with having visited the Normans at all that night when David finally brought the odd conversation to a quick close .
“What was it you wanted again ? ” Dan smiled as best he could and asked , “The kerosene…if it’s not a problem.” “Sure , ” David replied , “it’s over in that front corner of the garage .
Go ahead and take it.” David’s only movement was a weak gesture with his arm to the location of the red 5 gallon kerosene bucket he had to offer .
Not a muscle on his face moved or showed expression .
Daniel moved quickly to snag the handle on the bucket and step outside the garage , and when he turned to express thanks David and Ruth both just nodded slowly without saying a word .
As Daniel walked down the driveway he pulled his coat up over the back of his neck and head to prevent it from getting wet in the rain , but he still felt something cold tickling the hairs there .
Without looking directly back at them , he sensed and knew that they simply stared at him as he trudged past their lawn and down the street two houses before ducking between the second and third house to cut through the yards to his own home .
He heard the garage motor start up about the second step he took out of view of the Normans and began to feel a little warmth returning to him .
Zombies , he thought with a smirk , although he couldn’t tell if he had thought it or one of his other selves had thought it to him rather loudly .
His coat was in fact getting uncomfortable in the 55 or 60 degree evening with all the moisture and he decided to let it drop back down to his shoulders .
The hair on his head started dripping rain into his clothes by the time he made it onto his porch but he didn’t notice .
His other selves were standing in the background of his mind murmuring , apparently trying to decide how to engage Daniel in a conversation about what just happened , but it never came to fruition .
All the while the soft rain seemed to have a voice of its own pattering and echoing in his head .
Stay .
Must not leave .
The more Daniel resisted the chilling resonance the more he was determined to go .
On the second morning , December fourth , the kerosene , a sleeping bag and some blankets , several changes of clothes , as well as his laptop and a few other personal items were tucked into the covered bed of his pickup and the space just behind the driver’s seat .
The drive to Cortez was to be about 5 or 6 hours and he felt like he had plenty of time to get started out .
He decided he’d stop at the breakfast shop down in the valley below him before hitting the interstate .
With everything else prepared and the home locked up , Daniel stared at the gray of the valley and lake around him .
Sometimes in a lush green spring the lake looked brilliantly blue .
Under cloud cover it was often a more menacing but interesting green-gray .
In those cases the lake reminded him of the coloring of clouds just before an impending tornado front was moving through when he lived in Iowa and then southern Michigan on the outskirts of the Detroit suburbs near the “thumb” of the Michigan mitten for a while .
But today , and every day since late September , the mountain lake was deathly gray .
The mountains across the way , the lake and even the hills of trees around him looked as though someone had washed them in a dirty watercolor rinse .
To Dan , even the country about him seemed to be zombifying…just like David and Ruth , and everyone else willing to come out in the rain .
~~~ Finally , much later in the day than he’d originally planned , Daniel stopped begrudging the rain and climbed into his truck .
Woodland Hills happened to have a fairly evenly sloped path down to the valley so the road down was a straight and lengthy one , progressing four miles straight down the hill past an elementary school , some farms and the beginnings of the next closest town , Springton , on the valley floor .
The road teed into the state route that ran out to the freeway , but he didn’t turn left to get there , instead turning right to grab a bite to eat at the local morning coffee gathering place .
The rain had picked up from a drizzle to full scale showers , as though it knew what Daniel was planning and didn’t want him to escape .
Three cars , or more accurately , pickups , were parked outside the local gas station that doubled as a grill and coffee shop for the farmers in the area .
If the British have tea time , post-three-pm was coffee and bullshit time in the few booths in the grill area .
Non-farmers and people new to town were generally glared at , or given silent nods while the coffees were sipped .
An immortal was sat along the side , playing an out of tune piano - it didn’t care how it sounded .
The others had their hearts set on exploring this lost city .
A part of me wanted to as well , but I was wary .
This planet was the stuff of horror stories .
Visitors being arrested by the police for going where they 're not meant to , and disappearing .
Lost within a largely non-functional justice system .
I reminded the others to be careful and they seemed to take it in .
The risks seemed well understood .
We thought we’d start off by heading to the largest of the visible biodomes which towered above the hotel’s rooftop .
It would be just around our block of buildings - if we could find the right road .
Florina was filming everything as we walked .
We passed a church .
A religious building with a crowd of immortals stood motionless outside .
“People for you to preach to , ” Florina said , scoffing at Hayden .
He look uncomfortably into the camera .
“I think these people are well past saving , ” he said .
Immortals , with beads in their hands , would walk up to the entrance , wait around for a few minutes , then go on their way .
The leftovers of a religious practice they’d long stopped understanding .
Further up , a road ran around the side .
This would be the way .
The colour of the biodome ahead seemed to match that of the sky - pale yellow .
Rhea was one of the earliest of the colonies and these would have been colossal feats of ancient architecture , at the time .
“Do you think we can get inside ? ” asked Florina , as we got closer .
I said , “I don’t know , maybe .
Lets be careful.” The biodome had a large courtyard with a luminous fountain .
The type you might find on Earth .
Only here the water splashed down hard under Rhea’s gravity .
Hayden ran his hand through the pond at the base .
“Careful , ” I said , “We have no idea what’s allowed.” “Cautious , aren’t you , ” he said , smiling , but he removed his hand and dried it on his shirt .
“Probably best we don’t walk on the grass , as well , ” said Florina , pointing at the neatly cut lawn ahead of us .
I nodded .
A immortal walked down the path and passed us .
Its mouth gaped open and its sunken eyes pulled back down to one side .
It was heading to the biodome and we followed behind .
Florina asked aloud , “What could possibly be going on in their minds ? ” “Pray you never find out , ” said Hayden .
I answered , “Nothing - nothing is going on in their minds.” It led us up to the entrance and the door slid open .
The doors would have been triggered by electronic commands .
Without the relevant implants we were dependent on the immortals to open doors .
We followed him in .
There were other immortals inside .
It was a spacious dome with sculpted plant life around a scattering of small buildings “A park , ” Florina said as she spun around to take in the sight .
There were immortals sat around on benches watching other immortals playing hopscotch on the grass .
The biodome’s doors slid shut behind us .
Hayden observed , “We could end up getting trapped here .
If we need them to open all the doors.” “Yes , ” I said , “and we could all end up getting arrested if we’re forced to break out.” I began to back up towards the door , thinking the conversation showed a general agreement that we should leave , but the other two continued onwards .
I jogged up to them hiding my unease .
Florina’s focus was on her filming .
The immortals staggered about oblivious to her fascination .
A large marble statue dominated the centre of the dome .
It was of a pretty young women .
Looking down at the inscription , carved into the base , it read , ‘Gloria’ .
Immortals came dressed in a multitude of different clothing styles and colours .
The clothes looked new and clean - always freshly manufactured , but never the right size for their shriveled bodies .
It must all be made somewhere - all automated and repaired within the the city’s colossal structures .
We watched them walk their dogs .
Yes , they had pets , normal pets .
They must be breeding them and automatically assigning them to new owners .
The owners must have then added pet caring duties to their schedule .
It was all very clever .
The way these human puppets were made to play with and stroke the animals , as if they cared for them .
The animal wouldn’t have any comprehension that the human felt nothing .
In a way it was so sad .
We spent an hour exploring that biodome alone .
This city was vast .
We slipped back outside , through the doors , walking close behind an immortal who carried a bag of shopping .
She’d been buying some new clothes , by the look of it .
Back in the fresh air , I asked , “Where to , now ? ” “Perhaps we could find a place where we could get a coffee ? ” said Hayden .
“No , ” I said , “We’ve no money .
We’ll have to go back to the hotel if we want to eat.” “That’s boring , ” Florina moaned .
“Well , ” I said , “Perhaps we can explore a bit more before we go back.” There seemed to be a quiet agreement with that statement , though I now regret making it .
Our next discovery was a disturbing one .
Of all the buildings in all the streets , something invisible drew Florina on to a small opaque brown glass building .
We stood outside for a moment and Hayden asked her what she was looking at .
“There’s a lot of warmth here , ” she said .
I told her , “I don’t feel it.” Hayden , always looking for a moment to remind us of his faith , asked , “Would that be a spiritual warmth , you’re feeling ? ” Not answering she looked down the road .
An immortal was walking up .
Ugly as them all .
Her face fallen in on itself through lack of use .
She walked into the building .
The door sliding open for her .
“We don’t know when she’ll come out .
We might get stuck , ” I said warily .
I could see the longing to explore in Florina’s eyes .
She bit her lip .
I thought in that moment she was about to march in , but she stopped .
The immortal was coming back outside and it was such a disturbing sight .
I didn’t know what to feel .
We just stood there , all stunned into silence .
As she left , she held , firmly in her hand , the wrist of a worried looking girl .
She couldn’t have been more than eleven .
Normal and healthy , she showed no sign of being modified .
She looked at us fascinated as the immortal dragged her away .
Had she ever even met a normal person before ?
“Dear , God , ” whispered Hayden , “They’re breeding ! ” Chapter 3 Florina was the first to recover her senses .
She realised she’d stopped filming .
Lifting the camera back up , she called out , “Come on , we have to follow them.” Next thing we knew , we were jogging along the blue rubbery pavement , catching up with the the girl and her captor .
“Wait , ” Florina called out .
The immortal stopped and abruptly turned , yanking the little girls wrist hard .
The girl flinched in pain .
She was clearly use to being handled roughly .
The old couple’s place dances blue through the thin curtains , the TV flashing random bursts of color within .
It is this mysterious , haunting moment when the day sacrifices itself to night , drawing upon long shadows to make up the coming darkness .
It is a dreaming time , thick with rich possibilities , pregnant with nightmares .
And looking back there’s really not much to distinguish one from the other , or even reality from fantasy if you want to go that far .
Not for me anyway .
I keep hoping to wake up , to find some kind of easy television-drama reality shut around me , but I already know it’s not gon na happen .
So I sit here this night , most likely my last night , staring down ghostly Rampart , for some unfathomable reason conjuring images from Orwell’s Animal Farm .
You see , even though I was never much for school I’ve never been ignorant of literature .
About some things , sure .
But I’ve read , I’ve always read .
Perhaps , initially , because we were poor and the only toys my mother and grandmother could afford were not even toys , really , but cheap Golden Books .
Stacks and stacks of them now lost to whatever hell Time warrants .
It was my starting point , the axis which has since impressed me with the peculiarity of living other lives through words on a page .
Therefore Animal Farm comes , and with it , those two great swine , Napoleon and the defeated one .
Because I am that ill-fated Snowball , with just as much a chance in hell .
Regardless , I’ll confront him tomorrow , tell him what I didn’t do .
Of course I could make a run for it but what good would that do ?
He’d find me eventually ; the world is not large enough , the oceans not so deep , so I’ll wait the night , treading this thin line ...
But I do go deeper , darker ; somehow oppressively ripened .
Driven on by this twilight period , this lull so ripe with ghosts they flicker on the very edge of my vision .
I feel their icy , phantasmagoric fingertips dragging the ridge of my backbone even now .
Because the dream was upon me again last night .
The same as it’s always been , its power neither increased nor diminished since childhood .
What I remember from then , is still all I get now .
But the worst thing is -- unlike in my childhood -- the nameless are finally recognizable .
There are no secrets in the end , it seems .
*** Anyway , this is the dream as it comes .
As it always comes .
*** I’m in the cab of a pickup truck barreling down some south Louisiana highway .
I know this instinctively because sugarcane fields stretch off to the horizon on both sides .
And though I’m inside the truck , I’m not a part of what’s going on .
Just along for the ride it seems .
The driver , a trim , chiseled man , appears extremely nervous ; it doesn’t look like he’s changed his shirt in days .
Sweat runs freely down his cheeks even though the window is down and the rush of wind inside all but deafens the radio station ebbing and flowing tenuously through the air .
The cab is littered with empty hamburger and candy bar wrappers , cigarette butts , gas station receipts and cans .
He checks his watch as if he’s late , grimaces and rubs his face .
He slaps his knee in frustration then , barks words that are immediately torn away by the rushing wind .
And oddly enough , it is broad daylight .
Not usual in my dreams , when I have them .
Especially the bad ones , the ones that curl rank tendrils around my brain until hours after lunch .
But it hardly makes any difference .
Even though the sun is shining , the man’s nervous tension brews a thick contagion in the swirling , rushing air that proves just as ominous as nosing through a graveyard at midnight .
We near a town ; could be any one of the seeming hundreds that sprout like ragweed along the highway skirts of Plaquemine Parish all the way into the marshes of Venice .
I know because I’ve canvassed the area , enraptured by the weirdest sense of deja-vu I’ve ever experienced .
So bad , in fact , I had to pull over eventually at a gas station and drink a coke , smoked a handful of cigarettes before feeling well enough , safe enough , to continue .
In this dream the highway runs parallel to a rail line , and as we approach the blinking signal lights announcing the reality of the next few scattered houses and lone post office as a town , my vision suddenly expands exponentially .
I peel away from the tension-filled confinement of the cab , riding an impossible curve up and out until I’m directly above and in front of the speeding truck , my presence still as ethereal as a dandelion seed in a hurricane .
Now I see the man is not the only figure to play in this drama .
There is a small boy hunched by the side of the road , seemingly intent on something I can not , at first , make out .
And it is at this moment also ( always at this moment ) that the fear crushes in on all sides , leaving me ragged and shaken for long minutes after I finally , eventually , awaken .
The familiar nightmare staples of slowness and helplessness contort the whole aspect of what I’m seeing into a slow grind of excruciating melodrama .
Suddenly at ground level I’m granted the sight of a mute and stoic witness able to stare with unblinking nonchalance into the guts of an imminent accident .
Now I see what it is the child’s after .
A beautiful green grasshopper , its veined iridescent wings half-drawn , nimbly hopping through the gravel which lines the shoulder of the road .
I also see the Mason jar sitting crookedly by the willow tree , the partially-open front door behind the screen , and the boy’s intentions are suddenly clear .
But the truck is too close and moving too fast .
Even worse , coming up out of the vague ditch to street level , the boy will never be seen in time .
The fear which seizes me is debilitating , but worse ( I’ve always thought ) , far from blinding .
The boy races through the ditch , bursts above the lip of ground separating gravel from asphalt .
The grasshopper , aware of pursuit and tensed on the center , yellow stripe , is poised to make its own escape when the boy makes his lunge .
The instant afterward the driver’s eyelids peel back to the whites and he jerks the wheel savagely to the right , away from the uncomprehending child spilling out into the roadway .
The grasshopper disappears to pulp as the boy goes down chin-first on the highway , his wail lost to the frantic screech of rubber .
A concrete culvert , strengthened considerably to bear the weight of the Illinois Central that races across it twice a day , proves unavoidable and unyielding .
I see the man’s screaming face a moment before the truck tears into the embankment and explodes with the force of a bomb , throwing pieces of man and metal for hundreds of flaming yards .
I also see , there at the end , as the screaming , bloody-lipped child raises his head from the asphalt , a bright , ragged seam rent the air between them .
That has always been the strangest moment , the most unsettling .
Because with those two instantaneous glimpses a connection is established in me with just as much authority as a nail driven through my head .
And I’ve never had the slightest idea what the fuck it meant .
Up until yesterday I’ve tried to persuade myself I didn’t know who they were .
Now there’s no sense pretending .
The man in the truck was my father .
The little boy is Aldo Sautin .
*** So at this late date it boils down to the point of acceptance .
Do I really , possibly , believe anything I’m going to relate ?
Messages from reoccurring dreams , ghosts , divine intervention , predestination ?
Damnation , perhaps ?
Probably , to an outside party , it wouldn’t seem that far out of the ordinary , considering my Southern Baptist origins , but I left all that behind years ago .
Or at least I thought so… .
It’s funny , though , how all those lessons Grandma taught me have continued to flutter about my head like a misplaced halo ever since , regardless if I‘ve been aware of them or not .
One I’ve refused to claim so far , and you may wonder why .
Because it all seemed like a dance with mirrors to me .
Regardless…I can’t discount the unbelievable .
Not entirely .
I still recall That Day , playing in one of the many houses and duplexes we were constantly either moving into or out of .
We were always on the move those days , not large jumps really after a while , but just apartment-jumping in the wake of back-owed rent and bill collectors .
We lived off welfare and baby-sitting money and neither one of those makes for any kind of security .
But I’ll never forget Grandma’s face .
I’ll never forget the way she hustled us ( Donnie was the other kid That Day , the only one she was getting paid to keep ) into the dining room and dialed Cousin Linda’s number as she stared at the receiver with wide , uncomprehending eyes .
Eyes like the ones from the dream .
When you really think hard , everything comes back .
It truly does .
I remember her crying when Linda arrived , and the two of them going into the bedroom ( she would not go into the living room for weeks afterward ) and talking in low murmurs while Donnie and I played as quietly as possible in the bedroom next door .
Only years later , months before she died in fact , did she tell me what had happened .
And , as I’ve said , she was never one to lie .
She had no need for such trickery .
She’d been hanging curtains in the living room .
Donnie and I were playing on the patio right outside the closed screen door , our voices clear from around the corner , according to what she told me .
I heard nothing .
But while up there on that chair , arms outstretched as she hung the curtain rod , she suddenly became aware of a presence behind her .
My grandmother came from a large Nebraska family , four brothers and three sisters .
'You 're so like your birth mother .
Now it was her ambition to be a nurse , but she had you instead .
You follow her Jess .
She 'd have been so proud of you . '
'Why did she leave me ?
Why did she take her life Uncle Tim ?
I just wish I knew her .
I killed her did n't I ? '
'Now , now Jess do n't say that .
No one realized she was ill. Prissy blamed herself for not seeing the signs - we all did .
But , Prissy loved you from the moment she laid eyes on you .
Everything was for you . '
'Now you make me feel awful .
I should have—' 'No - no .
You gave Prissy something to live for - to love .
Thank God you did ; she could have been a monster . '
'How can I go on without her ? '
Taking her hand he said , 'You have to be strong my darling .
He broke off as he sniffed the air .
`` Seaweed ?
Now where is that coming from ? '
Jessie smelt it too , 'We 're not far from the docks . '
Neither saw the wraithlike figure beside her , a skeletal arm reaching out .
Gently , the old man handed Jessie a tissue as he led her to a carved mahogany chair .
'Come , come and sit down . '
'I just wish my mother could have known . '
'Maybe she does my darling - maybe she does . '
As the elderly man stooped to comfort her , neither saw the ghostly figure , stretched emaciated fingers to stroke Jessie 's bright hair .
*** St. Brigid 's thronged with mourners and parishioners paying their respects to Priscilla Elizabeth McGregor .
Jessie sat at the front of the church whilst representatives of charities , hospitals , orphanages , too many to name , packed the cathedral alongside friends and family .
She fingered the locket handed down through the generations from Grandma Morag .
Prissy always kept it locked away in her safe .
Yet , as if having a premonition of her death , she gave it to Jess .
Jess could almost sense her stepmother 's fingers on the old gold ; hear her voice .
'This is for you now Jess .
Keep it safe .
She turned the page of the hymnbook her voice choking over the words , 'Abide with me , fast falls the eventide . '
Later at the reception , mingling among the guests , Jessie glanced at the maids in black calf length dresses with frilled white aprons serving canapés whilst young male waiters offered drinks or champagne from sterling silver trays .
Struggling to keep her face composed , she looked over to her cousin Dinah , helping to carry the load of greeting and listening to the mourners who flocked to the wake .
They 'd been friends for years , sharing a room at University .
Now they had a therapy practice together .
Today , Dinah looked sophisticated with her pale white skin and dark-brown hair swept up into a sleek chignon , her ample curves snugly fitting a tailored black dress .
Jess sighed as she picked up her drink .
The guests showed signs of leaving .
She saw Dinah break away from a group and come towards her .
'Jess , how are you keeping up ? '
'Not too good Di ' It just wish she 'd had a chance to go to Scotland - that was her dream you know , find a cottage by a loch , search for our ancestors . '
'Then why do n't we do that ? '
Jess felt the tears fill her eyes .
'I 'd like to Di ' , but we ca n't leave the practice . '
'Already done .
I have two locums lined up .
They would be happy to take over for a few weeks . '
'No - I could n't Di - not now .
I 'd be deserting her . '
'Jess - you 'd be closer to her - fulfilling her dream .
Her spirit would be with you in Scotland , in the land she loved . '
'Look you need a break , we both do . '
*** As sleep evaded her , Jessie laid thinking about the impending journey to Scotland .
The phantom figures of Muriall and Duncan rose in her mind .
She did n't even remember slipping into the dream , into their world .
Muriall walked towards him ; the soaking cheesecloth of her chemise clinging to every curve .
As he looked up into her eyes , the colour of emeralds , he said , 'You look like a mermaid , wet and beautiful . '
She fell on the blanket beside him , playfully shaking her soaked Titian locks over him .
'I wish we could be together all the time Duncan -not escaping here when we can .
How long can we go on like this ?
You know your father will find out .
Max has n't said a word yet , but we ca n't trust him .
If it is n't him , it will be some spiteful servant who will tell him .
Then your father will send me away . '
'Never my sweet .
Father is frail , his health failing .
His room stinks of potions and unguents . '
'Do n't speak so ; it is as if you wish his death .
'He is denying food and shelter to thousands , yes thousands of our tenants .
He is about to evict whole families from their crofts .
He is treacherous , without pity for the men women and children starving on our estates .
One day we will rule Rhonan , and we will redeem our tenants , give them back their tenures , and they will thrive under our care . '
'I hear tell from Alice and Robbie that many are thinking of emigrating - some say to America or Canada .
It is something the Scots have always done throughout the centuries , but this emigration is far worse as they have no choice . '
'So I shall tender to those who are left .
One day Muriall , you will be Countess of Rhonan . '
Jessie moaned , as her eyes opened to the darkness of the room , her heart hammering .
The dream had always been the same , but tonight there was a difference - tonight Duncan spoke of his father , and one possible clue , the Countess of Rhonan .
If there was any truth in dreams , then this was a definite lead .
Those three small letters 'Mur ' , on the tattered piece of paper handed down through the generations could possibly read Muriall .
CHAPTER 2 2010 AUGUST - RHONAN , NORTH-WEST SCOTLAND 'Six million pounds ? '
The sun bounced off the solicitor 's bald pink pate as he nodded , Douglas Mavebury felt sand churn in his stomach .
Within seconds , he 'd gone from struggling to pay the mortgage on a flat in Bognor Regis , England , to a multimillionaire with a derelict Manor House and a ruined castle in the wilds of North-West Scotland .
His heart jumped into his throat as he watched the equally pink fingers of the Solicitor turn the page as he informed Douglas that he also inherited the title Earl of Rhonan from a distant relative , a Lord Richard Mavebury .
He turned to see his brother 's mouth drop open ; fingers tremble as he flicked back a lock of dark blond hair .
'You 're a millionaire . '
Douglas 's voice grated like gravel falling on tin .
'Good God . '
He waited as the Solicitor Mr. Edward Pevensey polished his glasses .
'Yes .
Some of your family members are not long-lived or die childless so the title is free .
None of them stay very long anyway . '
he said using the sounds that meant that .
`` Urmmm .
Not quite but you are close , '' I said .
I was quite shocked that he was even this close and I was beginning to feel a little queasy .
I realized I had unwittingly broken one of the first laws of my profession .
Then a quizzical expression crossed Ung 's upturned face and he said in a loud , proud voice , `` Am I sitting here , under the Sun ? ''
he said .
`` Yes . ''
I said .
“That is the question.” This confused them slightly because they thought Ung already had the answer but he looked triumphant .
He guffawed to himself and sat looking at me intently .
He was now my star-pupil and I did n't know whether to laugh or cry for the fun of it .
`` So that is the question for you to consider now . ''
I said .
`` I do n't think you will find the answer today but perhaps you will over many meetings , many meetings and maybe even the meetings of your sons . ''
And with that I quickly left the scene .
I did n't really think much more of it , you see , '' I told the audience .
`` It was just intended to defuse the situation . ''
`` But it may have been the turning point Mr As-qinov , the point at which Humankind became conscious . ''
'Fuck it , ' I thought and wagged my antenna a little bit to give the impression I was confused .
I knew now exactly what I had done and as far as they were concerned , the only thing left to do was sentence me .
So now it is night and here I sit talking to you .
And soon they will start to ask a bigger question .
If As-qinov went back in time to the earliest civilisation and changed when the dudes will reach the Check-point Charlie thingumyjig , which was built by nobody , knows-who , then who created the consciousness that eventually led to Mr As-qinov ?
And that 's why when they check my cell again in the morning they will find me gone .
*** Henry 's Car Lazo Ferran Copyright © 2010 by Lazlo Ferran All Rights Reserved .
“God’s body man , giveth me the 4th gear !
Now ! ” “Fucking press the damned clutch you madman ! ” I shouted back over the reverberating din of the V8 Chevy block , attempting some humility and knowing ‘damned’ was the only swear-word King Henry VIII would actually acknowledge .
The large pallid face broke into a toothy grin .
“Raymond .
You are an impertinent , what is the modern phrase , jackass , but I like you ! ” His big foot , somewhat incongruously contained in a size 14 Nike trainer , pressed clumsily down on the accelerator and I slammed the gearstick into 4th .
A moment later , the King , hunched over the royal Sparco steering wheel , turned the car to the left .
As dirt spurting from the drifting rear wheels , we emerged from the turn , I realised we were actually going to finish in third place .
Not yet a win but for a man new , not only to the sport but to the century , it was not a bad effort .
Henry roared his approval as we crossed the line .
*** Ah , the memory of it is a delight to me even now .
It all seemed like a dream until I saw the article in the The Richmond and Twickenham Times : Archeologists in Richmond dig unearth mysterious ‘fuel can.’ At once I was engrossed and read on .
Archeologists digging up a 16th Century hunting lodge are mystified by a fuel-can buried in the mud below the remains of the floorboards .
Barry Deancliff had the following to say to reporters last night : “It is most reminiscent of refueling cans used in stock car racing in the 20th century .
Moreover it has been carbon-dated and appears to be 400 years old , give or take .
I am completely mystified ! ” I checked the paper every day after that for months but there was never another mention of the mysterious refueling-can .
A letter to the British museum elicited the following curt reply : “Professor Barry Deancliff’s team will be spending many years analyzing the finds from the dig and as yet , he has no further comment to make about this particular item.” Eventually it seemed to have been buried : an awkward item that simply did not fit the picture the esteemed museum was looking for .
Racing has always been in my blood , my father being an engineer on Grand Prix cars in the 1990s , before children made him settle for a more mundane job .
The thrill of it never left him though and we would often stand in the rain for hours at Silverstone watching the Formula 1 cars screaming past .
Now I raced cars for a hobby in the Muscle-car Stock class all around England at weekends .
This particular New Year’s day , it really seemed as if nothing could possibly happen to me .
Most of my friends were visiting parents , an obligation I had already fulfilled on Christmas day , or they were slumped , lifeless in front of their 3-d screen .
I despondently checked the listings for anything that might interest me .
My mobile vibrated on the table .
“Hi Dave .
Good to hear from somebody .
Fancy a drink ? ” “Listen Ray .
I forgot I have two tickets to the banger racing at Wimbledon Stadium .
I didn’t think I would be going but now my sister’s ill and so Don thinks it’s better if I leave it a few days .
So I am going .
You wan na come ? ” “Banger racing !
Ha !
Ha !
It’s not really my thing but what the hell !
It’s better than brain-death in front of the 3-D .
Okay .
You pick me up ? ” “Sure.” The banger racing was a hoot !
We both chose cars , based on their form in the two-page guide we bought on the styles .
“I won again !
That’s it Dave .
That was the last race and I have the most points .
Your round I believe ? ” “Ha !
Ha !
Okay .
Let’s go .
It’s getting pretty parky anyway.” We drove to a pub Dave knew nearby with Sport TV on a big screen and watched whatever came on out of the corners of our eyes , while getting steadily more and more inebriated .
“Been a good year Ray.” “Speak for yourself mate ! ” “Cheer up !
You’re always one to moan but you ain’t got it too bad .
Good job , nice flat and a jag outside .
One more drink and its home to the wife !
Ah married life.” Although I didn’t need a pee when we left the pub , according to that inextricable law of nature that rules all bladders , I was desperate after the second roundabout .
“Stop here ! ” I shouted as Dave swerved either side of the broken yellow line in the middle of a road next to Wimbledon Common .
His swerving wasn’t helping my bladder at all !
“No way man !
You can last till we get home.” “Dave !
I am warning you !
If you don’t stop before the end of this road , I will unzip my flies and do it here ! ” “Nah !
You wouldn’t.” I reached for my flies “Okay man !
Cool it !
I am stopping” I was out of the car before it had stopped and nearly slid under the wheels .
I ran into the night looking for any tree but could only find a newly planted sapling about eighteen inches tall .
I stood dutifully astride it and smiled modestly as a woman walking her poodle glared at me while the stream of hot liquid watering the new sapling .
I went back to the car but Dave had gone .
“Dave !
Dave , where are you ! ” I stumbled around on the common in the twilight of a half-moon looking for my friend .
“Good evening Sir ! ” A large hand gripped my shoulder from behind .
“Arretez !
Parlez-vous français ? ” The voice was loud , gruff and unfamiliar .
“What ? ” I said spinning round , trying to focus .
“Ah !
Verily an Englishe gentleman.” Now the voice was overly solicitous but relishing its own sound.” “Yes .
Can I help you ? ” I said , rudely .
I was beginning to make out a large grin in a very big face , with a strange hat and what looked like a very large fur coat .
“Ah !
Yes .
“I think you’re right .
But let’s do this by the book .
Eyeballs on every victim before we move on.” She nodded .
“Sure .
By the book.” Avery stepped around the dead woman hanging over the chair .
“One wolf .
He tore this place apart .
There are so many bodies.” Dana followed him .
“One wolf’s capable of this much destruction.” “Why didn’t anyone get out ? ” said Avery .
“Usually , when a rogue starts tearing people up , someone runs for help , don’t they ? ” Dana made a tsk tsk noise .
“Someone didn’t listen to the emergency call that sent us up here , did he ? ” Avery turned to her .
“Doors were locked , ” she said .
“People inside called for help , but no one could get in until the wolf jumped out that window over there.” She pointed at a shattered window at the front of the bar .
“By then , everyone was already dead.” “You don’t think ... ” “That the rogue locked them in ?
That he did this on purpose ? ” Most werewolves killed on instinct .
They couldn’t help what they did .
But werewolves were human too , and that meant they were capable of murder .
Generally , a rogue werewolf could be rehabilitated , taught to control his or her wolf , and released from the SF to continue a normal life .
But murderous wolves ?
They got locked up , and they never came out .
Dana laughed shakily .
“That would be one hell of a first case back , wouldn’t it ? ” Avery grimaced .
The Cole Randall case had been a murder case .
It was only the second murder case that Dana had ever worked .
If this were one too , well , then she had rotten luck .
* * * The first time Dana met Cole Randall , she was sixteen years old .
It was a warm June afternoon .
The last bell had rung ten minutes ago at Brockway High School , and Dana was taking her time walking across the quad to the auditorium , where the results from jazz band auditions were posted .
Dana played the saxophone .
She’d been a band geek since middle school , and she had to admit she didn’t think of herself as a geek .
The kids in band were her friends .
Sure , they were all in honors classes , and they all actually did their homework , but near as she could tell , that didn’t really confer geek status on them .
In her rural school , there were kids who lived in trailers , kids who lived on farms , and kids whose parents actually had enough money to buy musical instruments and new clothes .
Near as she could tell , the bank geeks were the popular kids .
But things here were so polarized that there might as well have been three “popular” crowds—one for the scuzzies , one for the rednecks , and one for the preps , which was essentially where she fell in the social spectrum .
In an economically depressed area , she was one of the “haves.” Not one of the “have-nots.” She’d been planning to audition for jazz band for years .
Only juniors and seniors could be in the band , and they got to go to several competitions throughout the year .
They got days out of school , traveling , staying in hotels .
Dana thought it sounded fun .
She fully expected to get a spot in the band .
Several of the senior saxophone players were leaving , and she thought her chances were good .
But on the way over to check the results , she was seized by sudden panic .
What if she hadn’t gotten in ?
She imagined the following year of school , sitting in class while the rest of the jazz band was gallivanting at regionals .
She didn’t like the thought of it .
And so she was walking slowly , because she was terrified about what the pieces of paper taped to the glass doors of the auditorium might tell her .
She felt as if her happiness was bound up in it .
She wasn’t sure she could handle how she’d feel if her dreams were shattered .
She climbed the concrete steps to the auditorium , gripping the metal railing , steeling herself .
In the distance , she could hear the sounds of chatter and laughter from the student parking lot , the place she’d be headed in just a few minutes , heady with accomplishment or dejected and rejected .
A fine sheen of sweat broke out on the back of her neck .
She told herself it was only because it was ninety degrees outside , not because of her nervousness .
A guy raced up the steps next to her , taking them two at a time .
He wasn’t anyone she knew , but she’d seen him around .
They didn’t have any classes together .
He was one of the scuzzies—trailer trash .
He had greasy , shoulder-length hair .
His jeans were baggy and ripped at the bottom .
He had on a stained t-shirt .
She watched as he skidded to a stop at the top of the steps and turned around , shoving his hands in his pockets .
Why had he run up the steps only to stop ?
“Hey , ” he said to her as she caught up to him .
“Would you do me a favor ? ” Dana turned to see if there was someone behind her .
He wasn’t talking to her , was he ?
People like him did not usually converse with people like her .
There was no one else around .
“A favor ? ” He nodded .
He was a little out of breath .
“Would you go look at the jazz band results they posted ?
Tell me if my name’s there ?
I can’t look.” “You tried out for jazz band ? ” She couldn’t keep the disbelief out of her voice .
The jazz band was always made up of people from the marching band .
The same teacher directed both .
This guy had never been in the marching band .
“Yeah , ” he said .
He stuck out his hand .
“Cole Randall .
I play bass guitar.” She shook with him .
“Um , I’m Dana Gray .
I tried out too.” She was having one of those strange sensations , in which she realized that she understood some cliché she’d heard her whole life .
Maybe she’d always intellectually understood that people were the same , regardless of how much money they had or what kind of clothes they wore , but she had never really understood it on a practical level .
Now , shaking this scuzzie’s hand , witnessing how nervous he was , she realized that she’d been judging him unfairly .
He was just like her .
He was a kid .
He couldn’t help where his parents lived .
Dana felt a crushing load of shame settle on her shoulders , thinking of the way she’d behaved for her entire life .
She’d been a snob .
Realizations like this were becoming more and more frequent as her teenage years were wearing on .
But whenever she tried to explain her revelations to others , they always sounded so obvious that she felt like an idiot for not understanding them before .
She wondered if she had stunted emotional growth or something .
Maybe everyone else had figured this out when they were ten years old .
Dana tucked her hair behind her ears and smiled at Cole shyly .
“You want to look together ?
I’m really nervous too.” “Okay.” He grinned back .
They started over to the door .
“What instrument do you play ? ” “Saxophone.” “Should have figured.” She raised her eyebrows .
“What’s that supposed to mean ? ” He looked embarrassed .
“Sorry .
I shouldn’t have ... ” He stopped walking , and she did too , finding that she was interested in what he had to say .
“It’s only that I guess you seem sort of like a ...
Cold sweat stung my eyes .
She lay upon him as his breathing slowed , cradled him within her coils , held his gaze with her own .
He smiled up at her , sleepy and defenseless , and slowly turned his head back and forth to follow her renewed swaying .
Again , this apparently amused her , and she watched him intently as her movements slowed and finally came to a stop .
Then his eyelids fell shut , and with that smile still upon his face , he sagged within her coils , unconscious .
She lowered him gently to the floor , and as his chest rose and fell in sleep , examined him minutely with her flickering tongue .
Then she poised her mouth above his head , and began to stretch her jaws impossibly wide ... .
It took her a long time to swallow him .
The pulsing movements of her jaws engulfed his head and neck ; his shoulders and torso took a bit more effort , but the rest of him went down her throat with ease .
In the end , she relaxed , uncoiled herself upon the stained-glass floor , and apparently savoured the muscular contractions deep inside her .
Then she glanced toward me ; she looked directly at me with a knowing , unmistakable look , and I knew exactly what she meant to imply : This is what you want .
This is what you need .
This has been your secret , but now the secret is unlocked within your heart at last .
Fade to black .
Sweating in the silence , I was ready for the audience to turn and stare at me , to point at me with dawning awareness .
I braced myself for their shouts of discovery , their cries of shock and fear .
Yet nothing happened .
They whispered to themselves , unaware ; they laughed quietly at private comments , without suspicion , without a sense of danger .
None of them understood what they had seen ; none of them knew what watched them from the night .
When the next film began , I took my coat and slipped away as quietly as possible .
I stepped out of the cinema doors to find the world suddenly white : snow whirled beneath the streetlamps , and the wind pierced my back as I set off down residential streets toward the campus .
Every house on every street polluted the night with glowing windows , where men and women moved in silent , inexplicable dances of relationship .
At the sight , I remembered the last time I had seen my parents , but then the need arose and blotted them from memory .
They were gone , they were finished ; they had shown me a film repeatedly when I was five years old , then they had left me with the need and nothing else .
After years of need , I knew exactly what I wanted .
High above my head , embedded in the caduceus emblem on the wall , the twining serpents watched me and began to writhe .
***** Never Noticed , Never There On a wet Sunday afternoon in April , Robert Piedmont left his townhouse on Springland Crescent and never came back .
His wife later told police that Robert had seemed unlike himself that day ; in the hour before he left , she had caught him staring at her , at the wallpaper and stippled ceiling , as if they had been puzzles to resolve .
He said nothing when he slipped into his black raincoat and stepped outside ; he ignored her questions , scowled in perplexity for a final moment , then eased the front door shut .
By the time she had reached the doorway he was nowhere in sight .
One year later , while packing to move away from Springland and its painful memories , Mrs. Jocelin Piedmont phoned her brother and told him in a quiet , detached voice that her husband was alive , concealed within the house : `` I 've heard his footsteps on the staircase ... his hand reached for me straight through the wall . ''
She had found messages in the cellar , blurred notes on damp paper she could barely read .
Concerned for her mental health , her brother drove immediately to Springland , only to find the front door open and the townhouse empty .
Mrs. Piedmont never came back ; she had apparently joined her husband .
Unseen , unsensed , unmindful of their absence , the world moved on .
~ When he began to study graphic design in Ottawa , Tom Lighden came to realize just how small a part observation played in his life .
From brief , barely-adequate glimpses of the world around him , he had built up a series of mental models that allowed him to navigate between obstacles without stumbling .
He could cross a busy road while avoiding cars ; he could walk from class to class while totally preoccupied without getting lost .
But when asked to draw one of the university lecture halls or his tiny rented room from memory alone , he faltered .
The shame of it forced him to study the world with greater concentration .
Never again would he trust any impression made at first glance .
He taught himself to stare .
He carried scraps of paper with him at all times and drew studies of everyday things : the gleaming gnarls on a maple tree after the bark has peeled away to show the wormlike trails of larvae ; the spikes of frost on a window pane , pale and branched like coral ; the scintillant , moonlit wrinkling of the water on the surface of the Rideau Canal .
And then , one night in December , walking on a high embankment above the canal on his way to an evening class at Carleton University , he found himself confronted by illusion .
A cold wind scattered dry snow that evening .
No skater dared the ice ; no plow had touched the fallen snow on the stretch of canal beyond Dow 's Lake .
The sky was the colour of scorched brass , and the streetlamps along the embankment cast fumbling shadows in the snowfall .
On the canal just ahead , the gateway of Hartwell 's Locks loomed above the snow , and crouched before it was a lean , dark figure , stark against the whiteness : a tall man , apparently , gaunt with age , enwrapped in what appeared to be a tight black raincoat .
The man 's posture conveyed injury or suffering , so Tom glanced away from the canal toward the empty lanes of Colonel By Drive , hoping for a car he could stop if the man needed medical care .
But when he turned back , the figure was gone .
Tom blinked snow from his eyes and stared down at the unbroken expanse of white .
How had the figure vanished so quickly ?
After all , the nearest ramp leading down to the ice was boarded up and blocked with warning signs , right in front of him .
Tom clambered over the boards and descended to the canal .
His footprints left deep impressions as he waded toward the spot where the figure had crouched .
He stepped carefully and stared in the half-light , but found no previous tracks on the barren snow .
Yet something black protruded from the white , as if it had fallen from a coat pocket : a plastic billfold stained with mildew .
He found a strip of paper curled inside , but the light was too dim for close inspection .
This provided a good excuse to leave the canal , for which he was grateful ; in his confusion over what he had seen , he would have spent an hour in search of footprints .
Back on the sidewalk , he held the paper close to his eyes in the trembling light of a streetlamp .
Scrawled in partially-smeared ink was an address on Springland Crescent and a name vaguely familiar -- Robert Piedmont .
~ For the next few days he mulled over what he had seen , or rather , what he had imagined .
He was convinced that he had fooled himself with a lazy misinterpretation of visual impressions .
Yet he was equally certain that he had once heard of Robert Piedmont .
When he mentioned the name to an art history professor with a keen memory for local events , she thought for a moment , then shook her head .
`` Never heard of him . ''
`` Are you sure ? ''
he asked , and showed her the slip of paper .
`` Robert Piedmont ! ''
she said , giving it a French pronunciation .
`` Of course I 've heard of him . ''
She then told him the vague story of a man who had left his house one day and vanished .
`` It was in the papers for a while , '' she said , `` and on the CBC .
I 'm amazed you do n't remember .
It happened right here in Ottawa . ''
`` When ? ''
`` About ten years ago , something like that .
Where 'd you hear his name ? ''
He hesitated .
Then he said , `` Trivia quiz , '' as casually as he could .
In truth , he was too embarrassed to describe his lapse of visual judgment to anyone .
Later that afternoon he pulled yellowing newspapers from dusty library shelves , and found several references to Robert and Jocelin Piedmont .
Their case had remained unsolved , even after a decade .
He had once been told that people disappeared frequently ; the Piedmonts were merely two names on a long and growing list .
Yet someone had recently jotted down their old address on paper -- perhaps a journalism student or a true-crime buff .
As far as Tom was concerned , the matter was hardly worth pursuing .
Yet his perceptual ineptitude on that winter night troubled him .
More than ever , he was set on training himself to observe with complete confidence .
He had work to do .
Over the course of that winter he sketched obsessively , and in April he spent an afternoon on Parliament Hill , peering up at gargoyles and steep , copper-green roofs that bristled with ornaments of black wrought-iron .
People passed by now and then , enjoying the first clear day after a week of rain .
He ignored them , intent as he was upon dormer windows and Gothic turrets , but then someone went by who grabbed his attention .
An old woman with wild hair and a face the colour of an aching bruise stumbled toward him , hunched over , with arms crossed below her throat , with one of her hands clenched like a fist against her breastbone .
She wore a tattered shirt and faded jeans as ragged as her hair , and as she approached he saw that her feet were naked on the pale stubble of the lawn .
Worst of all was her expression of extreme pain : eyelids squeezed shut , the corners of her mouth dragged down in a trembling grimace .
He had never seen such agony on a human face .
Calling out to her made no difference ; she seemed completely unaware of the world around her .
He stared at her retreating back until she came to the sidewalk on Wellington Street .
When she stepped into the heavy traffic , he cried out and ran to stop her .
Valerie sat at the counter , waggling her fingers my direction .
I thought to leave , but- through no will of my own- dropped my bike haphazardly on its side and went in .
“Glad you made it.” She gushed .
“I can not stay.” I answered , rigidly , “I’m expected home.” Valerie leaned up to me , “You can stay for a little while , Alan Rand.” To my own amazement , I took the stool next to hers and repeated the words back , “I can stay for a little while…” “How did try-outs go ? ” “Not well , I’m afraid .
Apparently my fingering leaves something to be desired.” Of all the inappropriate gestures- Valerie placed her hand right on my knee , “I think your fingering is extremely desirable.” I nearly fell from my stool , “Miss !
Please refrain from physical contact ! ” Valerie only proceeded to inch up to my thigh , “Relax , Alan .
There’s no need to be uptight.” Uptight ?
How dare she ?
“You have misinterpreted my intentions for coming here if you believe such behavior is acceptable , ” I said harshly , picking up her hand and carefully depositing it back into her own lap .
Her smile , I will admit , was beguiling , “Then why are you here , Alan Rand ? ” The question threw me aback for there was no viable answer .
Oddly enough , I began to feel as if I’d been brought there against my own free will .
Avoiding Valerie’s provocative leer , I slid free of her roving hand and got to my feet .
“I made a mistake , ” I told her , looking at my watch , “And now I’m overdue.” Valerie stood , uncaring of any stirs her action would cause among the other patrons , coming in to stand offensively close .
She slid her hands round to my bottom , and pulled us tightly together .
“Yes , Alan Rand- I’d say you’re long overdue.” Smiling , she let me go .
With no way of hiding my disgrace , I stalked to the door , heads turning to glare as I passed .
I felt I’d come to the bottom of this little game ; Valerie Libidowitz , drawing me into a meeting only to falsely—and publically— seduce me .
I could not get away from the vile girl fast enough .
Oh Mister Prim-and-proper .
I watched him get on his dark green bike and , standing on the pedals for traction , take off down the high street .
His bum winked at me , bobbing from side to side .
He did have a delightful backside .
I finished my milkshake in my own time , despite the recriminatory stares from some of the drug-store clientele .
As usual , I reported my progress to Amos , and was surprised that he took so much notice .
“Why Alan Rand ? ” He looked at me , and I seemed to remember every time he’d touched me , all at once .
My skin crawled uncontrollably .
“He’s the new face.” I shook my head .
“I don’t get it.” “Valerie , my dear , you’re a hundred years old .
Of course you don’t get it .
It’s a young girl’s thing .
Ask any of the other kids at school who the school ‘looker’ is.” He advanced on me .
“Young movie goers don’t flock to see Clark Gable anymore , he’s old news .
The girls liked James Dean , they’re changing their tastes .
This new Elvis Presley is the same .
For us to keep the girls interested , we have to change our new face too.” “But he’s a complete prig ! ” “And we have a lifetime to knock that out of him .
Alan is perfect , trust me.” “But Amos , he’s a wimp.” “Oh , he’ll be fine .
I’ll find a cruel streak inside him , if I have to put it there myself.” It was then and there , in the deep gleam of Amos’ eyes that I saw the plan .
Alan was the lure , vampirism was the medium , and new bedfellows for Amos was the goal ; young ones , lured by the new ‘pied piper’ .
I pitied the girls , yet was glad that my age now put me beyond such punishments .
“Get him interested , Valerie .
That’s all you have to do .
Get him sniffing between your legs , and leave the rest to me.” As I headed for my house , I realized that was easier said than done , because for some reason Alan had ignored all my usual opening moves .
So I set to the indirect , choosing the oblique pathway .
I set out to glean his interests , his goals .
Turns out he didn’t have any .
Alan Rand was a very private person ; no real friends , a true loner .
No girls either ; not one girl in the school could claim that he paid them any attention at all .
My investigation had lasted all of two hours , using a bit of speed between interviews .
I determined to get closer , and that meant peeking through the keyhole , so to speak .
I ran over to his house , and found a nice bush to hide behind , whilst I ear-wigged on the conversation inside .
As suspected , dinner was set by the time I made it home at five-twenty-six .
I had gravely miscalculated the extra time my detour would cost ; pumping pedals while sporting an engorged penis made for slow progress- uncomfortable at that , I might add .
Fortunately , the physical exertion had alleviated that issue .
Yet the slow pace had created another .
Mother was perched at the head of the table , empty plate before her , hands folded pristinely in her lap .
As always , she’d prepared three place settings : one for herself , one for me and the third for my deceased father .
As I approached the dining room , Mother’s eyes were as vacant and perplexing as the empty chair Father had once occupied .
The sight of roast beef , surrounded by new potatoes and baby carrots roused my hunger .
Yet , there was little chance I would be partaking of any of it tonight .
“Would you care to explain yourself , Alan ? ” Mother’s words jabbed at me like a fork .
“I had try-outs today , Mother , ” I held up my clarinet case as proof of testimony .
“Yes .
I recall .
Try-outs were to end at four-thirty , Alan .
Did they go long ? ” The lie bobbled in my throat , but I choked it down like a hunk of dry bread .
It would have been a useless gesture ; certainly Mother would be calling Mr. Schuster to confirm my alibi had I resorted to one .
“They ended on time.” I stated flatly .
“Then I see no reason why you should be sixteen minutes late for supper , Alan.” “I was careless , Mother .
It won’t happen again.” Mother rose from the table , a motion so graceful not even the chair was disturbed by it .
The light from the overhead chandelier glinted off the smooth surface of her favorite strand of pearls- the ones Father had given on her birthday the year of his death .
Mother never failed to wear them at our evening meal .
Her coral-pink dress fluttered as she seemed to float over to me , expressionless .
Though she came only to my shoulders , Mother’s presence filled the room from wall to wall .
I was but a flat shadow in her midst .
“Careless ? ” she replied , a million accusations wrapped in two syllables , “How so ? ” I was both as honest and vague as possible , “I stopped to talk to somebody and lost track of time.” “Who were you talking to ? ” My tongue swelled in my mouth .
Each of my acquaintances had been boys handpicked for me early on ; mother knew each of them , their families and phone numbers .
Any accomplice to my tardiness I could name would be verified , my falsehood exposed immediately .
I had to take that chance ; for , in this instance , the truth would carry a far greater punishment than the lie .
“Trent Coombs.” I had to force the name passed my lips , knowing once it hit the air there would be no taking it back .
Mother turned on her heel , toward the kitchen telephone .
Dutifully , I followed .
Each spin of the dial seemed to take an eternity .
Like a chameleon changing color , the pitch of her voice lifted and peeled with a charm reserved only for strangers .
“Lorraine ?
This is Sophia Rand.” A deep chill set in her eyes as Mrs. Coombs confirmed her worst suspicions .
I felt the familiar shiver on my neck as the receiver was set back on its cradle , sounding all the world like a gavel pounding on my sentencing .
“Trent came down with the measles two days ago , Alan ; he’s been restricted in his room ever since.” A flash of something malicious tugged at the corners of Mother’s mouth ; she seldom smiled and it was a bitter thing when she did .
Reflexively , I took a step backward .
Stupidly , I fumbled for another lie if only to delay the inevitable , “I didn’t mean Trent ; it was Ralph…” “Who is she ? ” Mother’s eyes were sparkling , I was caught in them like a deer on the highway .
I spoke the name robotically , “Valerie .
Valerie Libidowitz.” I never even saw her flinch , let alone reach for the phone .
Mother swung the receiver into my cheek , connecting with my jaw in a resounding crack .
Smoothly she turned as the stars cleared from my vision , collecting the plates in a tidy stack and setting them on the counter .
The platter , roast and all , was cleared into the trash can unceremoniously .
“I am never to hear of this girl’s name in my house again ; you are not to go sneaking around with common whores behind my back .
You will not bring shame or scandal down on this household.” I took Mother’s berating without retort , no declaration of innocence .
In her mind , my guilt was absolute .
“You are dismissed , Alan.” My face still burning from the blow , I turned toward the dining room , passing by the now-empty table .
“Mind your manners , young man.” Mother called behind me .
I halted at the chair that used to belong to my father , “Goodnight , Sir.” I got an ear-full at the window .
Today , on my birthday , the cinema was kind enough to be showing a most peculiar double feature , Annie Hall and Phantom of the Paradise .
I don’t know how two of my favorite films showed up in the same theatre on my birthday , but they did .
Thom may or may not have been behind this strange coincidence , but I wasn’t questioning my stupendous and fortunate luck .
I just wanted to sit in that musty old gem of a theatre and soak up the adventures of Alvy Singer and Winslow Leach while sipping a moderately cold fountain Coke .
God , I loved that combination of a movie theatre and a fountain Coke while partaking in the communal appreciation of a good movie with a crowd of strangers .
Damn , I will miss that .
CHAPTER 2 : A DAY AT THE RACES Thom and I arrived downtown around noon and parked in the closest Green P we could find .
We had time to sit down for a quick lunch at the Pig and Pint , a small pub we frequent when we’re in the city .
We enjoyed the dark walnut walls , the leather seats , cracked from years of patronage , the smell of beer and wings , and the staff that have been there for years , not because they have to but because they love it .
We sat in a booth near the front of the pub , looking out through the bay window at the passing hordes .
There were so many people .
Then , anyway .
We sat and ate , and discussed the usual birthday woes , reflecting on the aging process , and how outside of our 10-year-old brains and hearts there were 40-year-old bodies that frequently farted , ached , and betrayed our sense of how far we could run or how much we could lift .
The real fact of the matter is that I felt better than I ever had in all my years , not necessarily physically , but in general .
I was happy .
Without the bullshit expectations and perceptions that accompanied youth , I was actually happy .
It felt good .
Thom and I finished our unhealthy but damn tasty lunch , and walked over to the theatre .
Bloor St was bustling with people , rushing in and out of stores , laughing , kids skateboarding by us in a blur .
The usual street kids were sitting against buildings asking for change , yet they wore nicer shoes than I do and had what appeared to be fully groomed and well-fed dogs , and at least $ 1000 worth of tattoos and piercings each .
I could never understand that .
We arrived at the Bloor Cinema shortly before the festivities began , so I took the spare moment to call Diane and check in .
She told me that Jordan went to daycare with none of the usual fuss of crying , kicking , and general mayhem that typically accompanied the drop off .
Of course , she was always fine once inside , nonchalantly waving us away as she targeted a certain toy and bee lined for it .
Then Diane mentioned that Jordan had a bit of a cough as she went in , but that it didn’t seem to be anything to be concerned about .
About three quarters of the way through Phantom , around the part where Winslow is bricked into the studio by Swan , the film jerked and the theatre went black .
Of course .
It was my birthday ; things couldn’t possibly go smoothly .
Murphy’s Law was written specifically for me , I was sure of it .
With the important things in life I was as lucky as they come .
I had my health , love , family , and friends .
But when it came to the smaller things in life , I was notoriously unlucky .
Give me fifty-fifty odds , I’ll lose nine times out of ten .
Regardless , we waited for word from the theatre , as would usually happen in a situation like this .
A few patrons walked out , presumably to get some answers , but still no help came .
We waited about twenty minutes before realizing the film wasn’t coming back on .
People had been sporadically leaving the theatre for a while now , and we decided it was time for us to leave as well .
We filed out of the theatre with a small group of people , up the musty inclined aisles and into the lobby .
A few people were mulling about , but none of them seemed to work at the theatre .
We couldn’t figure out what was going on .
Thom walked up to a group of three or four people .
“Do you have any idea what happened to the movie ? ” A tall man in a corduroy jacket turned to answer .
“We’re not really sure .
We came out here just as some guy came down from the office , said something to the two girls at the snack bar , and they all took off out the main doors.” Thom relayed this information to me , and we stood staring at each other dumbfounded .
We considered the options and agreed to leave .
Once we were on the street outside the Bloor , the strangeness continued .
Something about the mood had changed since we entered the theatre a couple of hours earlier .
Sure , there were still crowds , people with shopping bags , kids running around .
The difference was that everyone seemed to be moving fast .
No one seemed to be casually strolling .
Everyone was rushing to get somewhere , and no one looked happy .
Traffic had multiplied since we went into the theatre , and Bloor St was like rush hour , packed bumper to bumper .
After a minute or two of watching and trying to make sense of what we were witnessing , Thom and I both jumped when a piercing scream came from somewhere down the street .
We couldn’t see who it came from , but it was loud .
A few minutes passed of us standing there observing and sorting out the scene in our heads .
I felt like I was looking at one of those pictures that are just a mess of color , but when you squint and look really hard , you can see an image .
I never could figure those out , I only ever saw the mess of color .
We started walking down the street towards our parking lot , which was about two blocks away .
We tried to avoid everybody on the street , dodging out of the way of the migrating herds .
In the course of the first block and a half , we heard two more screams coming from different locations , another female , but younger sounding , and a male .
As we came around the corner onto the street our parking lot was on , we heard a din ahead , the noise of a crowd , like a group of people cheering someone on , only more aggressive .
We approached the parking lot cautiously , to where the noise was originating .
As we walked up and crouched behind an Escalade , we peered around the SUV’s massive frame to witness what was actually a mob of people .
They were gathered in a group , in a circle , and they all seemed to be concentrating on something in the middle .
We could hear that the shouts were mostly angry , and we could see the raised arms of people beating something , someone .
We could pick out a few choice refrains .
“Son of a bitch.” “You fuckin .
“ “Oh my God.” We surveyed the area and looked for Thom’s car .
It was just behind and to the left of the mob .
It seemed to have something sprayed on the driver’s side window .
Paint ?
No .
It looked like blood .
But why ?
How ?
We stayed put for the time being , until the mob started to die down .
A few people left , then a few more .
One man , older , with grey hair , but fit , came out of the crowd quickly , holding what looked like a child , maybe ten years old .
The child must have been unconscious , judging by the way she was lying limp across his arms , and she had blood on her clothes .
He held the child delicately , but with a definite sense of urgency , stumbling briefly but always conscious of the small girl in his grasp .
We ducked back down and circled to the front of the Escalade , then moved in front of the car beside it , a Corolla .
The man put the child in the back of the Escalade , got in and started up the engine , and drove out of the lot with a harsh squeal of his tires .
The rest of the mob seemed to be satisfied with whatever they had done , and went their separate ways .
One man sprinted by us as we rose from behind the Corolla .
“What the hell just happened ? ” Thom asked .
The man stopped .
“We all came rushing over when we heard the screams .
Some guy jumped that man’s daughter and started attacking her , biting at her .
A real psycho .
At first , there were just a few of us and we tried pulling him off her , but he kept freaking out , flailing around , and snapping at the air , at us .
We had to just keep hitting him and hitting him , trying to beat him into submission , but he was relentless .
I don’t know what the fuck is going on around here , but it took us a solid 10 minutes before he stopped attacking .
I almost felt like I couldn’t stop , but what were we supposed to do , we couldn’t even hold him still long enough for someone to call a cop.” Another loud scream cut though the air , this time much closer , along with what I could only describe as a guttural , roaring belch .
The man we were talking to looked quickly in the direction of the screams then bolted .
We started to move towards Thom’s car , and hesitantly looked at what was on the ground where the mob had gathered .
What they left behind took a few seconds to discern .
It looked at first to be a pile of refuse , perhaps a garbage bag of restaurant leftovers busted open , but it was actually a person .
There wasn’t much left of him or her ; it may as well have been garbage .
This relentless prodding continued over the next two weeks , night and day .
He struggled to fight the urge and he was soon losing strength .
Mentally he was exhausted , he just wanted peace .
Finally , he gave in .
He began buying drugs and alcohol with any money he could get his hands on .
He sold blood , collected scrap metal , and he found himself stealing from people at the mission .
That first drink quickly made any and all bad feelings disappear .
Even his mind began to relax .
He felt happy and calm , like everything was going to be okay from now on .
Things went from bad to worse .
He eventually lost the privilege to visit with his daughter , now two-years old .
The court deemed him an unfit parent since he couldn’t get his drinking under control .
Josh thought this absurd .
Sure he drank but it wasn’t as bad as some other’s he’d seen .
Discouraged and deeply wounded , he delved even further into his habit—a quarter of whiskey just didn’t seem to do what it used to now .
Depressed and alone he sought out prostitutes hoping that would make him feel better .
His tolerance level for drugs and alcohol rose so quickly that he couldn’t find enough money to support his habit .
The mission also had had enough of him and kicked him out onto the streets .
He no longer had a steady flow of people he could steal from to sell for drugs , alcohol or sex .
And now he had no money for his most basic needs : food , clothing , or shelter .
He had nothing but his depression … and a stolen gun .
He told himself he only had two choices .
One was to live the rest of his miserable life like it was , with feelings of guilt , regret , fear , loneliness , hopelessness , and sadness , or to pull this trigger to make all those feelings go away so he’d have peace once more .
He thought of what the preacher said about hell and how horrible it was there .
Even if it were , nothing could be worse than this , anything would be better than right now .
He was tired of fighting and losing .
He just sat there in that dirty alley looking at the gun he held in his hand through his tears .
He struggled whether to use it or not .
“Why not ? ” he coldly thought to himself , “No one’ll miss me anyway .
People’d be happier if I’m gone .
They won’t have to deal with me on the streets any more .
They don’t care whether I’m alive or dead.” He brushed his left hand through his greasy , disheveled , red hair then pressed the barrel of the gun to the stubble on his cheek .
He tried desperately to think of a reason not to do it .
His ex-wife wanted nothing to do with him and his daughter , now four , would probably not even know who he was if he stood in front of her .
He prayed to God to give him a reason .
Josh couldn’t think of any , his thoughts were too overrun with everything else .
He cried harder , he wanted it all to stop .
He breathed heavy as the tears streamed down his face .
He asked God to forgive him , gritted his teeth , and put the gun under his chin .
He wanted it all to end .
It was only the beginning .
Chapter 2 Everything was suddenly quiet .
There were no more sounds of the cool wind brushing past him .
The sounds of the streets were no longer heard in the distance .
All were replaced by a hollow quietness reverberating through Josh’s ears .
The rats , the dancing papers , and the grime , had disappeared .
A bright light shined from somewhere far above him illuminating at least eight feet around where he stood .
He thought it might be a powerful street lamp but the light was so bright he couldn’t stare directly at it .
Beyond where the light encircled him was nothing but pitch black .
He looked at his hands .
The gun was gone .
He looked around his feet , supposing he dropped it , but it was nowhere to be found .
This was odd .
The last thing he remembered was being in the alley .
He felt his body as though he wondered if he were real , trying to comprehend what just happened .
He slowly moved his hand to the back of his head where he thought the bullet should have come out .
There was no hole , no wound .
He looked around , peering into the pitch black confused about how he got here .
Josh closed his eyes , rubbed his forehead , and sighed .
He told himself to stay calm and think about this logically .
He remembered pulling that trigger .
He peered up at the light hoping its source would answer some questions but he couldn’t see a thing .
It was a dumb idea , he was almost blinded .
He looked away and blinked a few times trying to suppress the remnant spots he saw .
When his eyes readjusted he looked around , it was still useless he couldn’t make out anything beyond what the light showed .
The quietness was unnerving and started to get to him .
Again Josh tried to look at his situation logically .
He looked down at his right hand remembering the gun that was once there .
He remembered how it felt and the weight of it .
He remembered feeling the barrel in his mouth , the tip knocked against his front tooth .
He had pulled the trigger , he remembered doing that .
But how did he make it in here ?
Someone could have heard the shot , come running , saw his body lying in the alley , and noticed he was still breathing .
Being that the light was poor where he was , the person may have dragged Josh’s body into an empty nearby warehouse and patched him up .
He had , on more than one occasion snuck , into a warehouse when the mission was full .
He recalled the sounds the place made when all was quiet inside , similar to what he heard here .
It would explain the large room and light overhead .
Josh ran it through his hair again .
It was the only explanation he could think of .
He certainly didn’t feel dead .
He was still breathing .
He could feel his hair in his hand when he touched his head .
The light hurt his eyes so that was normal .
He looked down at himself .
He was still wearing the clothes he had on that night , all the way down to his torn up leather shoes .
What about the hole in his head that should’ve been there ?
Again he felt the back of his head , making sure not to mindlessly run his hand over it but inspect everything .
He couldn’t feel any scar .
Maybe the hole in his head wasn’t as large as he thought it should have been .
Or , the gun could have jerked when he pulled the trigger causing the gun to angle crooked making him miss his head entirely .
Of course , there always was the possibility the bullet never came out and would be forever lodged in his head .
Josh heard a very faint sound from somewhere far out in the darkness .
He tried listening more intently .
It almost sounded like someone screaming , but in the city there were all different types of screams .
Drunken college students coming out of a bar and hollering at the tops of their lungs was one example .
But it also meant there was someone else around and at least then he’d be able to get his bearings .
Also , Josh might be able to convince a college student to buy him some booze , he sure needed it right now , his mouth was dry and he was starting to get fidgety .
There was also the possibility the scream came from someone in distress .
His short time on the streets had quickly taught him to stay out of other people’s business or else he might be the one doing the screaming .
Josh weighed which scenario was more likely .
And then , ever so faintly , my fingers detected a single heartbeat .
Could this be ?
Had I imagined it ?
I held my hand there for a full minute .
And then again , I felt another heartbeat , then nothing .
For a time , I pondered how this animal 's life had been slowed to such a point without dying , and then I was suddenly aware that the storm had passed .
Above the ringing silence of the cavern , I became aware of a rhythmic breathing .
Behind me , the mound of rotting leaves seemed to rise and fall ever so slightly , ever so gently , and now I could discern a vague shape within the pile of refuse .
It was a huge beast of some sort .
I could see thick fur or hair amid the twigs and leaves with which it had covered itself .
My first thought was that it must be a bear , sick or wounded in some way , and I made to depart stealthily .
But when , with a rustling spasm , a great hand-like claw ( far too human in appearance ) thrust itself through the debris , I gasped and scrambled for the exit of the cave without regard that my panic-stricken flight might awaken and enrage the creature .
I marched home along rain-slicked paths , and the freshness of that early summer day made it easy to push aside thoughts of what lay in the cave .
The earth above was a gentle , orderly place — I had merely succumbed to childish terrors in the underworld .
The deeper knowledge within me remained at rest , slumbering throughout the summer .
And so I courted Katina Fedorovna .
Her eyes matched her chestnut hair , but they were too wide for her petite features — eyes which always seemed startled , as if she had suddenly been come upon while standing alone in a quiet place .
She did not so much walk as drift on currents of air .
Like all beautiful women , she knew the power of her charm , and could bring any young man to her service with nothing more than a smile in his direction .
But she was no coquette .
And after we had danced the spinning waltz beneath the stars of August and I had quoted lines from Racine to her , we began to speak to each other in Russian instead of French , and I knew that soon I would be able to ask for her hand .
My friends , out of concern , not conceit , reminded me that Katina 's family though well-to-do was beneath my station and that my late parents would never have approved .
`` Are you sure that her affection is not motivated completely by money , '' asked one of them .
“Certainly , '' I replied , `` she holds a secret sparkle in her eye , for my countenance only . ''
I was in love with her , and it was for more than how she looked on my arm .
The engagement was rushed , mostly by Katina 's father .
He was the one , I thought , who took sure interest in transfusing his bloodline to one more ancient and wealthy .
We set the wedding for midsummer , and saw each other throughout the winter at small gatherings .
I played games with her in townhouse parlors while most of the men my age sat in adjacent rooms talking about Napoleon , speculating about war in the coming summer .
And in the spring Bonaparte 's ambition forced us to cut short an already brief courtship .
I married Katina in early June of 1812 .
Our honeymoon was ended a few days later when Leonid Valnikov sent a rider over with the word , over a week old , that the Grande Armee had crossed the River Niemen and into Holy Russia .
It was a Friday afternoon .
The next morning I had Yakov harness the pair of white mares , and I drove with Katina to the Valnikov estate .
Leonid was like an uncle to me .
We sipped warm wine , and I wished for him to wash away some of the fear of the coming war with France , to tell me that General Kutuzov would drive those haughty Frenchmen back into Poland with ease .
We had , of course , passed the springtime speaking the speech of its growing certainty , but I felt surprising shock when at last it arrived , the demon , war .
Naturally , the young bravos of the town used no such disparaging term for the glorious battle to come .
`` This time the little emperor has awakened a giant and will get the thrashing he is due , '' they bragged as they signed their names and were marched away by the recruiting officer .
I still get a pang of guilt that I never felt any pity for them or their fate , but I sensed , driving home in twilight , that the pale horseman was not carried headlong by the invaders .
Rather , I knew he would be following behind the legions of soldiers , feasting on the lands left silent by their passing .
The hard-eyed cavalryman bearing a major 's insignia and Kutuzov’s orders arrived with a squadron of dragoons before the first day of summer .
I waved to him as he crossed the little bridge and turned his horse toward the garden where I sat reading .
`` So the war is over already ! ''
I called in a jesting manner , not daring to reveal my secret hope that it was true .
For the last three days the sky had been dark to the west , the horizon black , the air hazy with smoke , and I had imagined that the great battle was taking place .
The Major looked down on me with a soot-streaked face .
`` No .
We have not yet engaged Bonaparte 's army .
The General is giving ground to the French — we must have time to marshal more troops before we can attack .
And we must weaken the enemy as they pursue us . ''
Then he told me his orders , and for a moment I could not speak .
`` You can not ! ''
I finally blurted out .
`` What gives the General the right — `` '' The Tsar gives him the right ! ''
he snapped back at me , but I took no offense .
He was tired , and angry with loathing for what duty required of him .
He calmed himself before he spoke again .
`` I am sorry , sir .
But you are subject to martial law , and you must obey .
We also have orders to commandeer all horses and livestock , excepting what you need for transportation . ''
`` Transportation ? ''
`` You ca n't mean to stay .
It would be terrible for your family , and you would all starve come winter .
The peasants and village folk are already heading east with what they can carry , and you should do the same .
You have until noon tomorrow .
Good day , sir . ''
That night I told Katina that I was sending most of the servants away , but would be staying .
I told her of the promise to my father and the holy oath I had sworn upon my very soul .
And it was then that I came to understand what my father knew but could not say : that if I fled the estate , I would break my ethereal bond with the creature .
I and my family and all my descendants not yet born would become its prey .
I did not tell my wife this , of course , and Katina said that she would stay by my side though I asked her to go .
For that I was grateful .
In the morning , the dragoons came for the animals .
They took all the grain and would have taken the flour and salted fish as well if they had had more wagons .
I sent the servants along with them , except for old Yakov .
Then the Major and his troops returned at noon to enact General Kutuzov 's master strategy .
They set fire to the fields .
They burned all of them .
Every stalk of wheat , every potato field , every patch of onions or cabbage , every storehouse , every haystack , every blade of grass , they burned .
We watched from my balcony .
When they lit the first fire , far in the distant , and it rippled across the wide field of waving grass , it was awing , almost sublime .
Then the torch-bearing riders came closer .
Great clouds of smoke roiled upward from the waves of flame , far more thick and black than I would have thought .
Soon a strong wind began blowing from the north and the fires spread quickly , getting into the hedges , jumping roads , leaping into the trees , engulfing the abandoned hovels of the serfs .
We felt the heat from half a mile away , the sound of the flames like the roar of a storm .
Blackened horses and riders cantered the lanes between the fields , shouting , turning about , trying to find a way past the walls of fire .
It was like the last days of the earth , and we waited for trumpets and broken seals and God 's judgment .
Before the curtains of smoke fully enclosed us , I saw the dragoons assemble on the highroad .
They rode off , the world aflame , riding hard towards battle at Borodino .
`` We must go to the cellars now , m'lord , '' Yakov said , his voice tight with fear .
`` It is the only place we might be safe . ''
I saw that he was right .
What a fool I had been to stay , for now I would lose it all and perhaps our lives with it .
`` Yes , '' I said , `` let us go at once . ''
We went to the farthest corner of the deepest cellar , and I was comforted when Katina knelt and offered a simple and devout prayer for our deliverance .
We waited , listening to the distant growl of the wind-buffeted fire .
At length it seemed to pass , so I climbed the stone steps and pushed open the cellar door .
The house was still there .
By some miracle the entire estate , though heavily blackened , stood intact .
“Well , that’s good , I guess , ” he said .
“I’d best let you get on , eh ?
You mentioned a busy day tomorrow.” “So I did , ” Tom said , with a decisive nod .
“Which leads me to say , if you happen to be near here tomorrow evening , you can always come to see me at the Dominion ?
It’s only next door.” Chris managed an embarrassed shrug , before he said - “Okay.” “Not much of a theatre goer , huh ? ” Tom guessed , with a smile .
“No matter ; if you don’t like it , you can always put it down to a bad experience.” “I‘m sure it can‘t be all that bad , ” Chris drawled , wondering to himself why Tom was even asking him to show up at the theatre .
He thought that maybe it was due to awkwardness , or pure British politeness , after a brief time spent in each other’s company .
Chris wondered further at his own motives when he realized that he wondered if he should take up Tom’s offer , just out of sheer curiosity .
It wasn’t every day that people invited him randomly to nights out ; it wasn’t as though he couldn’t look after himself if things turned sour , after all .
Usually , things turned out badly for the other person .
“It depends on how much you like Shakespeare , I guess , ” Tom said , with an easy shrug .
“Just ask for me by name - Tom Kendall-Hollingsworth , by the way - and tell them at the foyer you’re my guest for the night .
It should be no problem .
They’ll let you in.” “Tom Kendall-Hollingsworth-by-the-way .
I got it , ” Chris said , trying to hide the sudden smirk at Tom’s suddenly surprised expression .
“I’m sorry , that was a bad joke.” Tom merely laughed at that , before bidding him goodbye , slipping out of his side of the table before his tall and lanky frame moved out of view , through the press of bodies still populating the cafe .
Chris‘ attention shifted when Tom left , tension returning to his bulky frame .
He realized only then just how relaxed he’d been in Tom’s company ; a first for him , in what seemed like years .
He inhaled , and caught an unfamiliar scent nearby , a scent that was dangerous and somehow threatening .
He snarled despite himself , a sudden surge of power threatening to push his beast out into the open before it was even time for a natural change .
He looked up and saw the pale-faced stranger that had curled his lip at him before loitering by the side of his table .
Chris feigned disinterest and idle relaxation , refusing to let the other dominate him or cow him .
It wasn’t in his nature to bow to others ; really , he was used to being the Alpha male in any situation , expecting others to bow submissively to him .
When the other refused to move , Chris stood , allowing his greater height and build to dwarf the other man .
Chris felt savage satisfaction when he forced the other to step away , almost submissively .
“You wanted something ? ” Chris prompted , impatiently , almost hoping for a fight so that he could ease the tension from his own body , at least for a short while .
“There‘s no room for your type here .
Your pack didn‘t want you , and we don‘t want you here , ” the other man said , his voice a hissing lilt .
“You might wan na give some serious consideration into leaving town , or you‘ll get what‘s coming to you.” “Really ?
Is that the best you’ve got ? ” Chris asked , with a weary sigh , trying not to let the other‘s words affect him .
“I think it‘s gon na take more than simple threats to get me to leave .
Try harder.” He turned away before the other could speak again , striding from the cafe and into the arms of the night .
He lost himself to the rhythms and the cadences of night-breezes , winding his way through Hyde Park when he came upon it .
As he raced through an arched line of trees and across the grass , he felt like sending his voice up to the stars above , exultant in night’s hunts as his sorrows and ever increasing worries were lifted from his shoulders for a time .
~~~ Tom Tom headed for the nearby train station as soon as he left Cafe Rouge for the bustle of Tottenham Court Road , mind still resting upon the blond man he’d left behind in the cafe .
He wondered why he’d asked the other man to see his play ; after all , he didn’t even know Chris .
Tom wondered again if perhaps Chris really was the stalker he so carefully professed he wasn’t , yet as he thought on Chris’ face when Tom had revealed his name , he knew that there hadn’t been one flicker of recognition in those bright blue eyes .
He didn’t think anyone could be that good a liar .
He was an actor , after all ; he dealt with professional liars on a daily basis .
He relaxed back into his seat , once he‘d climbed onto the train , watching the monotonous scenery outside roll past , yet still his mind dwelled with his unexpected dinner guest .
Chris had seemed polite enough , his smiles and laughter genuine , yet there had been that inherent shroud of sadness and responsibility that had enveloped the other man and weighed down upon his broad shoulders as though something was too much for one man to bear .
Perhaps that had been why he’d extended a hand of friendship towards the man , to try and ease the pain he could sense in Chris , even for a little while .
He’d been told too often throughout his life that his heart was too kind , his overtures of friendship genuine , and his help freely given to those who needed it .
He wondered how Chris would react to Shakespeare , whether he would become as immersed in the rhythms of complicated pentameters as Tom himself did , and whether it would make the other man equally as happy .
His mind drifted , and thought of olden times , of kings that still rode on horseback and fought wars with swords instead of tanks and cannon-fire .
A warm glow settled through him as his thoughts ran through the various lines he would have to recite the following evening , eyes closing as his lips formed well-loved words and sent them into the night air .
For one brief moment , he forgot Chris , and those sad blue eyes ; King Henry was all he could think of for a time .
His contemplation was finally broken by the sounds of conversation taking place nearby ; a couple were talking about the news that had taken London by storm in recent times .
Interested despite himself , Tom listened , gaze still resting firmly upon the window , hoping that it wasn’t obvious that he was listening in .
Even though they were almost drowned out by the sounds of the train itself , and conversations taking place elsewhere in their carriage , he still caught enough to know they were discussing the wolf that had been spotted roaming the streets of London .
Reports ranged from it being a normal sized timber wolf that had escaped from London Zoo , to a seven foot tall monster that no one could explain .
Tom didn’t know which tale he believed ; he held the private assumption that it nothing more than an urban myth or joyful scare-mongering .
No matter how viable those reports were , he knew that people were getting killed , and that the police were treating such reports as the work of a serial killer , and not the wolf that so many claimed .
As his train finally pulled up at his station , his mind shifted to Chris again as he climbed out , readying himself for the brief walk home .
Tom made a promise to himself that he would look for Chris amongst the usual theatre-goers the following evening , to see whether the Australian had accepted his offer of friendship for what it was .
Tom hoped that he would be ; Chris looked as though he was in bad need of a friend .
For one brief moment , before he entered his apartment building , Tom thought he saw a large shape sitting at the end of the road , eyes boring into him as though whatever it was , was watching him .
He blinked and the thing was gone ; he snorted , and entered his building , putting the experience down to tiredness and too many weird conversations heard on the train home .
After all , Tom knew he didn’t believe in the wolf that stalked London streets , and so , as such , couldn’t have seen that very thing watching him .
~~~ Chris “Once more unto the breach , dear friends , once more ; Or close the wall up with our English dead .
He watched , utterly drawn in to proceedings by Tom’s presence alone , that commanding figure that demanded respect and fealty from all , audience and onstage troops alike .
Chris had never been one to consider himself as a Shakespeare type before , yet he’d been surprised at how easily he’d been drawn into the plot ; even though he couldn’t follow all of the language , with its difficult phrasings and sometimes odd flow , he still followed most of it enough to enjoy the story .
It was the first thing he’d been able to focus on in a long time , with attentions pulled every which way by the worries and stresses of his life , that forever wore upon his nerves and patience .
Even now , he could feel the curse of his existence tugging at the back of his mind , forever tainting everything and wearing him down into almost madness .
He forced himself to continue watching , the hour growing late as events played out upon the stage , of men rushing into battle and on and ever on into King Henry proving himself again and again upon the battle field , before winning the hand of Katherine , daughter to the King of France .
He tried not to take note of the press of humanity surrounding him , the utter closeness of the theatre bearing down upon him ; Chris could feel his own claustrophobia growing until he felt like a caged animal .
He shifted in his seat , adjusted his collar time and time again ; his constant fidgeting garnered himself an irritated look from the people sitting to either side of him .
He apologised , until it became too embarrassing to keep doing so ; instead , he tried to keep himself in check , yet he found the pursuit near on impossible .
He was glad to find that when the play was over , he could return to the tentative safety and the comfort of the open air outside the theatre .
He breathed deeply , broad chest expanding with every inhalation , scenting the fumes on the air that seemed a pertinent part of London itself ; he checked the sky and saw the first full moon of the month sailing high in her star-strewn trappings .
Chris shuddered despite himself , knowing that he did not have much time left to be himself .
He could feel the moon’s song performing her magic upon him already ; something stirred within him , as of a great beast unfurling and wishing to be set free .
His fingers and toes flexed and contracted reflexively and he tried to squash the change down for as long as he could .
He turned when he heard the sound of someone’s approach and a low-pitched utterance of his name in a familiar accent .
Chris was smiling despite his ever growing discomfort ; even without hearing Tom’s voice , Chris would have known who was approaching by the other man’s scent alone .
The beast inside him curled again , threatened to spring and Chris wrestled it into submission once more .
He refused to change and let his beast control him , when there were so many people around him .
“I’m surprised you came , ” Tom said , as he stopped in front of Chris , unaware of Chris‘ inner turmoil .
“I didn’t think you’d be interested , to be honest.” “Neither did I , ” Chris said .
“My usual nights out are not usually so fun , I have to say .
Besides , it doesn’t hurt to try something new , eh ? ” “Indeed , ” Tom said , appreciatively .
“I’m glad you took a chance on Shakespeare.” This last was said with a wry little twist of his mouth as though Tom had known that Shakespeare hadn’t been Chris’ thing all along .
Chris laughed at that , making Tom smile himself , with that flash of indecent mischievousness that Chris had noticed the night before .
“Was it really that obvious ? ” Chris asked , with a faint grimace of embarrassment .
“To anyone else , no , ” Tom said , still smiling .
“But when Shakespeare becomes a passion , like he is for me , one can tell when the fire does not burn quite so brightly in others.” Chris’ eyebrows rose at that .
“Did anyone ever tell you that you had a way with words ? ” he asked , falling into step beside Tom when the other gestured for him to do so .
“You wouldn’t be the first to point that out , no , ” Tom said , with a grin , before he sobered a little .
“No worries , I like it .
You’re more eloquent than my usual crowd , ” Chris said , noticing the way that Tom’s grin had dimmed slightly “And your usual crowd being - “ Tom invited , with a questioning lilt to his voice , eyebrows raising slightly .
“Animals , the lot of them , ” Chris said , with an ironic smirk at Tom .
“They’re wolves .
Literally .
I work at London Zoo .
I find it more a kind of hobby , than a job , ya know ? ” “Interesting hobby .
It‘s good that you enjoy your work , ” Tom said , sounding genuinely interested .
“Any reason behind why you wanted to work with wolves ? ” “You could say it runs in the family , in a way , ” Chris said , dryly .
“I have a natural affinity for them and they seem to like me , in turn , so why not ? ” “Why not , indeed , ” Tom replied , quietly , before he frowned .
“Talking of wolves , have you heard about that wolf that’s supposed to be stalking London ?
It could have been her .
She had to find out who he was , to know more about his clan and their intentions .
They shared the same enemy and yet they knew nothing about each other .
Feeling a chill start to get to her , she quickly changed her clothes and turned up the lantern for a bit of its warmth .
She wrapped herself in the last of her blankets and made a seat at the end of her raggedy bed .
The man was deep in sleep next to her and so she let her eyes find muse in the dance of the soft flame .
Faithfully , it lured her to sleep .
Though morning was just beginning to dawn , the two of them had suffered a great battle in the passing of night .
And it would certainly not be their last .
Chapter Two HOURS CRAWLED BY IN that windowless room , the oil lamp as its only light .
Still frail , the man stirred and his blurred vision cleared .
He spied the woman asleep at his feet , curled up and leaning against the wall .
He stared in wonder of who she was .
But his fatigue was too much .
Unable to fight the weight of his eyes , he slipped back into slumber .
Later , it was the rasp of moaning metal that reawakened him .
Though a few more hours had gone by , he felt that no time had passed .
His sight focused to see the young woman set a cup of hot soup and a spoon next to the bed .
With her standing over him in wait , he found enough strength to sit up .
`` I do n't need that , '' he plainly said .
`` Ya ' got ta eat… '' '' I 'll be fine ! ''
he snapped , leaning to the cool of the wall .
The woman took back her offer and mumbled , `` A simple 'no , thank you ' would 've been fine . ''
She set the cup to a wooden crate near the wall , where the man saw his torn trench coat was dry and neatly folded .
The fabric had stiffened from his blood .
Just beside it was his sword .
He was then startled as the woman tossed him a clean shirt .
`` What 's your name ? ''
she asked , seeing him struggle to get on the black cotton t-shirt .
He was oddly hindered by her simple question , keeping his sights low .
`` Does it matter ? ''
She let out a small laugh , catching a bit of his interest , `` Guess not . ''
He spied through the stray tendrils of his chin-length hair , watching her sit on the floor next to the oil lamp without much care either way .
He did n't know why , but… '' Zeke… '' he lastly said , and she looked over at him .
Her lips briefly grinned , `` I 'm Alex . ''
In the quiet that followed , she could tell he was sizing her up in some way .
She just pretended not to notice .
`` So… '' she finally broke the tension , `` You guys part of some elite classified government team or somethin ' ? ''
Zeke slanted his brow .
`` The coats , the weapons… '' Alex pointed out , `` The way you fight them . ''
He coldly pulled his look of her away , snuffing her query .
She rolled her eyes .
`` How 's your back ? ''
she quickly asked .
`` Fine… '' She started to stand , `` You want me to check it ? ''
`` No , '' his bark halted her .
Slowly , she sat back down and turned her stare to the flicker of the tiny flame .
`` How long have I been here ? ''
`` All day , '' she said , and pulled out her phone to check , `` It 's almost four o'clock . ''
The man slowly slumped to lie back down , feeling another wave of exhaustion overwhelming him .
`` I will leave at dusk , '' he meekly told her and released a tired sigh before he was pulled back to sleep .
Alex hoped his rude demeanor was due to his condition , but she was n't so sure .
Propping her phone on the floor to show its clock , she tried not to grumble as she rose to her feet .
She then gathered up her blanket and backpack and left him alone in the tiny room .
She also needed to get going at sunset and had her own recouping to do .
* * * Zeke did n't mean to be out for so long , but he roused to see the time on the glowing device showed it was likely past sundown .
His body felt as hollow as a steel shell , and his head and limbs ached as he strived to get up out of bed .
With feeble grips , he grabbed his coat and sword and hobbled to the door .
Stepping out into the musty basement , he looked to the nearby corner and saw Alex napping , using her pack as a pillow .
His steps just sneaked across the cement floor and then up the stairs in silence .
When a horrid howl severed the twilight air , Alex shot up in a fright as it echoed down the alleyways .
The iron hatch on the wall was open and so she scurried in only to find the man was gone .
Then , a crash from above rushed her upstairs .
Using the wall to climb back to his feet , Zeke was staggering desperately towards the front door .
He flinched as another monstrous wail cried out .
He was so out of breath that he could hardly see straight and he was again losing his balance when Alex grabbed to help hold him up .
Without a word , she aided his fragile body back to the cellar .
`` They are so close , '' he said .
`` Usually are , '' said Alex , hurrying them back into the fallout room .
Quickly , she secured them inside .
Zeke 's state was failing , which only worried Alex more .
Aiding him along , he sat and leaned shriveled to the wall atop the mattress , his coughs now more frequent and wheezy .
Alex took a surrendering seat at the foot of the bed .
`` Why… '' Zeke found the strength to say , `` Why do you keep helping me ? ''
She thought it was an ignorant question , especially given he could scarcely ask it .
`` Even if you could walk , you would n't get two feet from the front door before they made a meal outta ya ' . ''
He managed to roll his head enough to peek at her .
Her eyes were again lost to the little firelight .
`` That thing would 've sliced me in half last night if it were n't for you , '' she then said , `` I 'm surprised you 're even alive .
And if you make it 'til morning , we should get you to a doctor .
I 'm just not sure what the hell we 'd tell 'em . ''
`` No , '' he insisted , `` I must leave tonight .
I must find the others . ''
`` You mean your friends ?
I think they 'd rather you get checked out .
You should make sure those cuts are n't infected . ''
`` You should mind your own business , '' he said with a glare .
Alex bit back her retort .
But her thoughts churned deep with the odd sheen she saw the lantern flicker over his eyes .
It was like that of a wild animal .
Then , loud slams began to hammer against the house above them .
It triggered Zeke 's curiosity , while Alex only stared at the lamp .
`` It 's the blood , '' she said .
`` They tracked my blood here ? ''
She just shrugged , `` They always track blood here .
I try to get out of the house before it starts .
Sometimes they go on for hours . ''
As the beasts banged wildly on , their bellowing calls fell deaf on the blocks of vacant buildings around them .
`` Chimeras… '' said Zeke , seizing Alex at full attention , `` They are the spawn of the most dangerous and lethal predators in the world fused into one . ''
Blank of expression , Alex forced her view back to the light of the lamp .
I needed a new plan , before my fear manifested into madness .
- I spotted a nondescript duffel bag sitting in the opposite corner of the roof , beside to a foldaway chair .
It had n't been there before , I swore it , but there it was .
Unquestioningly I opened up the bag to see what treasures lay behind its heavy , inviting zip .
I received : Two short bits of wood , Several handguns , A grenade launcher , A sword with a detailed skull etched on the handle A small but powerful crossbow and a barrel full of arrows A strange red herb , and An inexplicably chilled can of beer .
Thinking clearly for the first time , looking out at the mess of gathered inhumanity , a hasty plan of action bloomed .
I shook the can like an aerosol until it felt about ready to burst , until I heard the contents bubbling away , and threw it into the crowd to create a small diversion .
Only then did I realise I should have cracked it and chugged half , before nonchalantly tossing the rest away .
Dropping on to the bin , I used the sword to relieve a few of the ghouls of their ugly faces whilst firing grenades to clear a path .
Each round made a 'chunk ' as it left the tube , arcing through the air and landing with a satisfying yet modest explosion .
Most direct-hits vaporised completely , others caught at the edge of each blow split into sections and flew through the air .
I shouted `` Yeeeeaaaaarrrrrrghhhhhh ! ''
The sea of monsters parted and I hopped to the ground , slashing wildly with the exquisite blade .
As quick as I took them down , more replaced their fallen brethren and they closed in again , desperate to sink their teeth in my skin or desperate to die at my hands .
I was n't sure .
They 'd gone from idle to aggressive in the time it took me to launch an explosive , cock-sure attack .
Ditching the spent launcher , empty and useless at close range , I slipped the sword into a belt loop and pulled the two elegant handguns from clips on my waist .
Where the clips came from , I could n't honestly say .
I charged my way through , popping bullets in any skull that dared get close , skipping gracefully over the flaming , bloody carnage caused by my grenade antics .
With barely a scratch I reached a handily abandoned ice cream truck , fortified for some reason and with another bag of weapons sat on the passenger seat .
I reached out to grasp the small metal door handle ... ... and felt my head thud against cold glass .
Then mild pain .
A shot of delirium passed through me .
'I 've done it again , ' I thought , rubbing at the sore spot on the side of my head .
Tossed back to the real world where I had no army-issue ice cream truck or a girlfriend , feral or otherwise .
I did n't even have a cold beer or an arsenal of fantastical weaponry .
My eyes clung desperately to sleep , only opening under heavy protest and presenting the world to me as a blurry mess of imprecise colours .
Napping on the bus to work was a predilection of mine ; an unfortunate trait , but not my worst .
Usually I woke when the bus juddered due to passing over bumps in the road , or over some pedestrians , depending on the sanity of the driver .
Never had I rattled from slumber because an old crone ruthlessly smacked my sleeping features off the window .
I rubbed one eye awake enough to look at her and she launched into her argument , furious that I had n't immediately offered my seat to the oldest bidder .
She had a substantially hairy top lip and breath like rotten cat food .
The tip of her index finger , bony and jabbing me in the chest , appeared to have fossils embedded under the greenish , unpainted nail .
`` My generation died in the war for you !
You ungrateful ballbag !
Move your fat behind and let me sit ! ''
she squawked through ill-fitting dentures that clacked and collected spittle as she spoke .
Admittedly , I 'd chose to sit in the special fold-down seat reserved for the infirm or disabled , but I had been asleep .
I would 've argued this was the ultimate in temporary disabilities if the shock of waking under such circumstances had n't spooked all words from my tongue .
At the very least I classed myself as infirm , perhaps even vulnerable ; defenceless against her attacks .
She capitalised on that fact like an aggressive , elderly nightmare .
Whilst her harsh words dribbled through my sleepy haze , I neglected to point out that she clearly did n't die in the war , and if she had , we would n't have a problem .
I also did n't mention that , whilst she was indeed older than most senior denizens of hell , she would have barely been a glint in her father 's ball-sack by the time the Second World War wrapped up , giving her about as much chance of dying in that war as I did of becoming king of the rat-people .
With my stop approaching next , I begrudgingly relinquished the seat to the 'kindly old lady ' in the hair net and patented pastel coloured GrandmaCoat™ and hopped off the bus , pushing past an army of similarly ornery gravedodgers so eager to board that they had no interest in letting me off .
I pretended not to notice my foe 's offensive hand gesture as I passed the window on my way to my next glorious destination , the monorail station , for the second leg of my achingly dull commute .
I did , however , spend my three minute walk inventively plotting her messy demise .
I 'll get her next time , I promised , addressing anyone listening in on my thoughts .
Oh yes , I 'd get her .
Possibly with some sort of jabby-forky-twisty instrument and a decent run up .
I made a quick note to self : Invent a jabby-forky-twisty instrument .
And give it a snappier name .
Chapter One .
08:30am THE UNLIKELY HERO OF THE PIECE .
I stumbled slow up the long steps towards the warm , inviting light of the office foyer .
A crowd gathered ahead of me , one I 'd hung at the rear of , avoiding all the altercations that took place when so many people crammed through a lone set of double doors .
The grey-scale clouds and approaching winter made the trip to work almost unbearable ; each morning felt like a thousand mile march toward a doomed battlefield .
It was n't too cold out yet but it was dark and the looming possibility of rain threatened to soak everything at the blink of a tired eye or the drop of a woollen hat .
Lots of people wore hats , incidentally , thereby increasing the chances of such an occurrence .
They also wore thick , waterproof coats with fluffy hoods on the off-chance of a freak storm , making the train altogether stuffier and more sweat-scented than ever intended .
Five minutes sat wedged between two huddled , sniffling walrus-men made me feel like a ham reluctantly roasted inside an unconventional yet mildly functional oven .
Of all the passengers , only one man in an inexplicable tweed suit appeared to enjoy himself at all , presumably glad to not be swathed by a plastic jacket .
When I say inexplicable tweed , I do mean it ; this suit was entirely tweed .
It had more in common with a dogtooth-patterned burlap sack than a finely tailored three-piece , but he smiled at everyone , displaying his happiness for all to envy .
The sky leaked at some point through the night , giving the air a fresh , wet smell that tickled the nose .
No sign of a comforting , all-day sun lay on the horizon .
There had n't been any for weeks .
Between the winter recently gone and the one coming up , it felt as if summer vanished off to somewhere else entirely .
Maybe it went to Spain for a few months ; I hear the weather is splendid there .
- I adopted a look of classy determination as I stepped inside , just another young go-getter in the prime of life , but I sensed I looked ill and perhaps a little confused , so quickly gave up that charade .
'Aspiring ' was a look I struggled with because I could n't adequately quantify it .
Could n't emulate it as I was n't sure what it looked like .
Whilst catching a glance at my own face in a polished glass door , I saw my attempt at a smile broadcast as a definite frown .
Even the limp tie around my neck gave off a thoroughly unhappy impression .
I suspected the building contained its own bastardised brand of gravity , but instead of dragging everything down without prejudice , it only tugged down the hopes , dreams and mouth-corners of every employee .
It exuded displeasure , encouraged sadness and generated various levels of depression in every employee that correlated inversely to the size of their annual income .
For me , it was big on depression , low on cash .
I felt a mutual animosity with the building , as if it knew how I felt about it and it saw no issue with reciprocating that displeasure .
It hated me just as much as I hated it .
I 'm sure , given the chance , it would hate everyone in the world .
Vending machines posed proudly a few yards inside the foyer , with large buttons and a soft , inviting glow .
They promised so much more than they delivered because they were always entirely vacant of anything good , i.e .
anything anyone may actually want to pay for and subsequently put in their faces .
Plenty of stale crisps filled the racks alongside cheap chocolate bars containing nuts no-one ever heard of .
The powers that be routinely stocked the drinks machine with obscure European imitations of popular soft drinks that tended to imitate the image but neglect the taste , filling the container with off-colour pig swill instead .
Have a can of Corque to wash down lunch .
Go on .
'Enjoy its syrupy , guacamole flavours and tar-like texture , ' said no one , ever .
I forsook any early morning snacking and strolled the vast , plant-lined entrance until I landed at the main reception desk , passing many a rancid painting that looked like absolutely nothing .
A banal collection of 'Art ' based around patterns of coloured lines and cheap , splattered paint were the highlights of this particular corridor .
One piece bafflingly named 'Cinnamon Dreams ' was the exact polar opposite of interesting .
In fact , I 'd go as far as to say it was shit .
`` Morning , Susan ! ''
I cried , too eager , as I approached the nomadic reception desk .
`` Good morning , Joe , How 're you ? ''
`` Hungry , mostly .
You ? ''
`` I 'm okay , thanks .
Surviving !
Could be worse ... ! ''
`` True ! ''
“Oh , of course he is , ” said Noel .
“I mean , his name is Maurice.” “I don’t think he’s gay , ” said Reginald .
Noel looked at Reginald as if she’d been slapped .
Culture at the company wasn’t exactly full of camaraderie outside of the six-pack-abs set , so entering a conversation that you’d overheard but hadn’t been invited to join was sort of like peeing in someone’s coffee while they stood there and watched you do it .
Noel seemed to think that she should respond , so she said , “Why don’t you think he’s gay ? ” “I don’t know .
I just don’t get that vibe.” “What would you know ? ” said Sarah .
“You’re a man , and you’re not gay.” “How do you know I’m not gay ? ” said Reginald , who wasn’t gay but who didn’t care if anyone thought he was .
The thing about Sarah , Noel , Scott , and Maurice was that although they were mostly apathetic about each other and about Reginald , all five were united by their shared loathing of Walker and his clones .
Noel , Scott , Sarah , and ( probably ) Maurice would never say that Reginald was fat , mock his fat , or even comment , when asked about him by a third party , that he was fat .
And Reginald , for his part , felt the same about them .
Scott wasn’t old , for instance .
He was Scott , and he wasn’t part of the army of clones .
That was enough .
“Women can sense these things , ” said Sarah .
“Would you ask him out , if you didn’t think he was gay ? ” said Reginald .
It was an odd question , totally out of character for him to ask .
Really , it was out of character for Reginald to ask anything .
Really , it was out of character for anyone other than the clones to ask anyone anything at all .
Except “for permission.” “I don’t know , ” said Sarah .
“He seems moody.” “He’s awfully young , ” said Noel .
“So you’d date him if you were nineteen ? ” said Reginald .
“I’m glad I’m not nineteen anymore , ” said Sarah with a shiver .
She had a lazy eye .
Like Reginald , she’d simply endured high school , waiting for it to end so that she could move into the adult world where people were civilized .
Reginald could tell by the way she jumped when anyone dropped anything that she wanted her money back for the broken promises of adulthood too .
“I guess , ” said Sarah .
Despite the lazy eye , Sarah was attractive .
She didn’t know it , though , and she hid it well .
She had no sense of cosmetics and seemed to know just enough about haircare to get her by .
Her dark brown hair was always in a tidy but uninteresting bun , and her wardrobe was comprised of dumpy slacks and out-of-style blouses .
She turned to Reginald .
“Would you , if you were gay and nineteen ? ” This line of discussion was strange , but Reginald liked it .
He never talked to the others in the office .
Sometimes he wondered why , given that they were all outcasts .
He supposed it was due to the office’s atmosphere of oppression .
The proles in 1984 probably didn’t engage in much small talk either .
“If I was gay and nineteen , sure , ” said Reginald .
“Someone has a man crush , ” said Sarah .
Reginald shrugged .
He almost said what was on his lips , which was I don’t have many friends .
But in addition to being untrue ( he had his family and the four guys he played poker with sometimes ) , it sounded pathetic .
He was already cubbyholed as pathetic for being so fat , and he didn’t need another crucifixion stake floating around , waiting to be picked up .
The kitchen door opened and a cleft chin with a set of perfect teeth walked in .
It took Reginald a moment to decide exactly who it was because the rest of the office looked so much alike , but eventually he saw that it was Todd Walker .
Once he did , he became very interested in the coffee he was stirring .
“You in here again , Reggie ? ” said Walker , who knew that Reginald hated being called “Reggie.” “Damn , boy , give the fridge some time off ! ” “I was only grabbing…” “Just busting your balls , ” said Walker , slapping him on the back .
Then , in an aside tone of voice : “Assuming I can find them in there.” He chortled again to show that it was just a joke , which of course it wasn’t .
“That’s not nice , ” said Sarah .
“Oh , he knows I’m only kidding .
And who knows ?
Maybe one day we’ll make a success story out of Reggie like that Jared guy from Subway , and then we’ll all get rich selling the shit out of these treadmills.” Walker smiled .
His teeth looked like Arlington tombstones .
Walker grabbed a protein bar out of the refrigerator .
“What you all pow-wowing about in here ? ” he said .
Nobody answered .
Sarah was dissecting her French bread pizza like it was a pithed frog in science class .
“C’mon .
Noel , what were you guys talking about ? ” Noel looked up .
“The new guy.” Walker made an odd frown that only happened on half of his mouth , like the other half didn’t get the memo .
“That fucker’s weird.” He took a bite of the protein bar , then continued with a mouthful of soy or whey or whatever it was .
“That sword .
I’m worried he’s going to snap .
I asked him about it and he said he uses it to trim his hedges .
Think he’s serious ? ” He didn’t pause to let anyone answer .
“Saw him leaving a few times when I came in to the office in the morning .
So he works all night , and when he leaves , you know what he does ?
He walks home , and he wears a coat with a hood , and he — get this —“ Walker laughed , because clearly everyone would want to mock the following point .
“— he carries an umbrella .
Like a parasol.” Walker , his mouth full of protein bar and his perfect white teeth fighting to be seen amidst the food , looked at Reginald so that he could confirm how crazy the IT guy was .
Reginald shrugged .
Walker closed his mouth and shrugged back .
“Maybe you don’t think it’s strange , but you’re not exactly in the middle of the bell curve.” He took another bite .
Noel coughed , then covered her mouth quickly and resumed looking at her lunch .
“Well , I’ve got ta get to work .
Trying to leave early .
Have a date with a contortionist who can put her legs behind her head and cross them like a pretzel.” He leered at Sarah and Noel , both of whom might be prospects for Walker if they underwent an extreme makeover .
“Can either of you do that ? ” he said with an erect penis in his voice .
And with that , Walker was gone .
The earlier spirit of loose camaraderie left with him .
Then Sarah spoke .
“I wonder if he has a skin condition or something , ” she said .
“Maurice , I mean.” Reginald turned to go .
“Maybe he’s a vampire , ” he said with a chuckle , and then he let the kitchen door close behind him and walked back to his desk .
BRO DATE MAURICE WORKED FROM 11PM UNTIL 8am with , presumably , an hour break for what Reginald had to assume he called “lunch.” His job seemed to be doing a lot of technical stuff that Reginald didn’t understand and didn’t particularly care about .
After a few weeks , Reginald’s rut began to settle into a familiar rhythm of intersection with Maurice’s rut .
They started to run into each other at precisely 7am each morning when Reginald , who preferred to get in early and get out early , walked down to the kitchen for his second cup of coffee .
That’s where he found Maurice one day , sitting at one of the tables with a cellular phone in his hands , using both of his thumbs to text or email someone at an inhuman speed .
“Holy crap are you fast on that keyboard , ” said Reginald .
Then , deciding to go for broke with his new office “friend , ” he added , “My fingers are too big for one of those things , but even on a regular-sized keyboard I’m pretty slow.” Maurice jerked his head around and uttered a noise of surprise .
The door had been propped open and he hadn’t seen Reginald enter .
“I’m sorry , ” said Reginald .
“Thought you saw me here.” “Nah , it’s… it’s cool , ” said Maurice , stowing the phone with a self-conscious glance around as if he’d been caught doing something private , lewd , or both .
He paused , then answered Reginald’s observation : “Practice texting is all.” “You work at night , right ? ” said Reginald .
He didn’t wait for an answer because he was only making preamble .
“So when you take your hour break , do you call it ‘lunch’ even though it’s like 3am ? ” Maurice nodded .
“Yeah , ” he said .
“So do you eat lunch foods , or is it , like , your dinner ? ” Maurice’s mouth made an amused half-smile .
“I just grab a quick bite , ” he said .
“And so , if you work at night , how do you have a social life ? ” Then he realized how forward that question was , especially with the corporate culture being what it was , and muttered an apology .
It was the fact that the clones weren’t here , he realized .
They were all powerful in their own right , but when those powers combined , they had made certain the Dark Army suffered dearly to take their wall .
The largest member of the group was the mighty Boulder Dwarf , Drau’d , eldest son of Brodin .
Brown tufts of hair covered his legs , arms and chest ; as thick as that found on a human head .
With every breath , his gaping nostrils seemed to drain the chamber of air .
Drau’d was twice Nicola’s height , and as wide as she was tall .
To reach the sentry chamber , he virtually crammed himself up the rusty iron stairway .
During his climb , Nicola was certain the ancient structure would collapse .
Thankfully , the stairway flexed and bent , but it held – she just hoped the structure had enough integrity to safely deliver him back down .
Nicola would be certain to keep her mage-fire ready during his descent , just in case the Boulder Dwarf started crashing down the seven flights of iron stairs .
Considering what Drau’d had been through in the last three days , it would be a travesty for him to suddenly die a senseless death – not to mention a significant loss to the overall strength of their army .
Drau’d was an extremely valuable warrior , and an essential element in the defense of the Red Wall .
In fact , every Boulder Dwarf was a priceless soldier in the Triad’s army .
The powerful giants left countless Plague infected beings to rot along the wall .
Just earlier that day , with only a small force of two hundred , they had fought through miles of infested rampart in order to reinforce the Northern Garrison before it was overrun .
In their charge , they lost a dozen of their kind , yet obliterated thousands of the undead .
Their bravery bought the city time , but they couldn’t take all the credit for that small victory .
The garrison had many staunch defenders who managed to stave off their defeat with one brilliant maneuver after another .
One man in particular , a rich merchant-trader of some renown , was mainly responsible for rallying the garrison .
Because of him , the wall was held far longer than should have been possible , allowing the thunderous charge of the Boulder Dwarves to reach them .
And , of course , the garrison had Solo Ki and his army of elves .
The immortals .
Each a legendary warrior even long before the coming of the Plague .
The quick , highly-skilled elves proved an equal match to the greatest horrors spawned by the Rift .
They were faster and far more experienced than the common soldier , but their greatest strength was their immunity .
Whereas other fallen soldiers arose to fight alongside the Dark Army , the elves could not be enslaved by the Plague .
But they could be killed .
Sadly , even many of these great immortal warriors fell to the forces of the Plague .
Nicola stood next to their leader , Solo Ki , perhaps the most ancient elf of all .
He loomed over her , a thin , skeletal figure with a dirty cape draped over his shoulders .
His hood was up .
Beneath it she saw a face of sunken shadows , and a pair of bright , glowing eyes of grey and white .
Nicola knew little of him , other than the many legends that surrounded the man .
But they were only legends , myths to be more accurate .
In actuality , the truth of his past was somewhat of a mystery .
With his head of grey hair , and pale , worn features , he was certainly a relic of an age long past – possibly a time prior to even the great Exodus .
But strangely , his name was absent from the historical records of that time .
The first mention of ‘Solo Ki’ appeared at the beginning of the second era , coinciding with the end of the Gatekeepers , and the death of the High Mage Andrillin .
No matter his true origins , Nicola was certain of one thing , there was pain in his cold , dead eyes .
Far more pain than even this world could possibly offer .
Solo Ki was a mystery , and a living legend .
Having witnessed his abilities first-hand , there was no doubt in Nicola’s mind that he fully lived up to his reputation .
In the thick of battle Nicola had seen his power and his prowess .
She watched as his twisted staff of black wood sucked the very life from his enemies .
The Graelic , the legendary staff of Adros .
The one weapon the Plague feared .
When wielded in the hands of Solo Ki , the wisest members of the Plague fled .
the rest met their permanent end .
But even so , as powerful as Drau’d and Solo Ki were , there was another among them who had proven himself to be far more powerful than Nicola had ever thought possible .
LeCynic .
His name alone filled her with venom .
And the things she had seen him do with the Oneness .
simply shouldn’t be possible .
LeCynic was advisor to the Keeper .
But he was more than that – much more .
Nicola was fairly certain LeCynic was a god .
If he wasn’t such an arrogant bastard , she would have given him a shred of respect .
But he showed respect to no others , not even his Keeper .
Even now , on the verge of defeat , LeCynic calmly leaned against the chamber wall ; his arms crossed , a smirk on his face .
Remarkably , his robe was still sparkling white , while the clothing of all the others was filthy and worn .
His tan features glowed and his dark brown hair danced in the wind .
All in all , the young man appeared to have come straight from a refreshing trip to the bathing chambers and not a bloody and hopeless battle .
A stark contrast to LeCynic , and by far the bloodiest and most battered among them was Ebboron , Lord of the Rock Dwarves ; his beard yet dripping with the blood of his enemies .
Ebboron wore a breastplate of the precious dwarven ore known as ‘blue-steel’ .
But now the typical bluish tinge to the metal was hidden under a crust of dried up black blood .
Even the mountain insignia and runes blazoned on his chest were indistinguishable , marred by deep gashes and heavily dented .
What the Rock Dwarves lacked in size , they made up for in ferocity .
They showed no fear in the face of the Dark Army , but charged headlong into the fray , their hammers and axes inflicting a deadly toll .
The last member of their council was also the newest ; Hitt'rille , the recently elevated Lady Protector and commander of Lock Core 's northern garrison .
Being the lone survivor of her squadron , she justly earned her title .
Perhaps not as skilled a fighter as the elven warriors , she was a clever young woman who was also blessed by the gods with a great deal of luck .
Just a week ago , Hitt’rille had been utterly untried in war – hadn’t they all ?
But she had proven herself to be a quick-thinking commander after the passing of her superior , the venerable ( and extremely vulgar ) Bortimere .
Lastly , and perhaps most importantly , there was the leader of their world , Dertois .
Of those she considered companions , his name was not only at the top of the list ; it stood alone on a blank sheet of parchment .
In this world , Dertois was her one true friend .
and yet , Nicola had always longed for more – more than she could ever dare to ask of him .
Many times she was on the verge of revealing her true feelings , yet faltered , for Nicola knew Dertois well .
She knew where his heart of hearts truly lay .
Traditionally , the role of Keeper was reserved for the one most blessed of the Oneness .
Dertois , however , was raised to Keeper because of his wisdom .
His greatest strength – and the trait she most admired – was his ability to keep his emotions in check , and base his decisions on his intellect .
Some found him to be cold and calculating man , but Nicola knew the truth of him ; Dertois was a just ruler , one who set aside his own desires and held the needs of his followers to be greater than his own .
He loved every last citizen of Lock Core equally – Nicola included .
Because of this , Nicola knew she would never hold a special place in his heart – just a place among all the others .
Over the years , she cherished that small piece of him that was her own , all the while suffering when that piece failed to grow .
But none of that mattered any more .
Very soon , Dertois would sacrifice every last bit of himself in defense of his world .
This would be their end .
The end of them all .
Slowly , Dertois turned , his brown hair draped just past his ears and was plastered to his face .
Much like her own , his white robe was stained in the blood of both the living and the undead .
He stepped into the chamber , water pooling around his feet on the floor of red stones .
Dertois let his gaze wash over those gathered in the chamber .
`` Amass our forces along the northern wall , ” he said , his face filled with determination .
I knew how to sweep something like that under one big-ass , motherfucking rug .
I knew how to play the game .
I changed names on death certificates and falsified reports .
Vivian Montavez vanished , replaced by just another Jane Doe .
A Gene Genie .
One of a million .
Whatever , it didn’t really matter .
The girl was dead , after all .
Dead and no coming back .
I doubted she’d care what name was on her toe-tag when she slid into the furnace .
The senator would never claim her body .
She was too hot to touch .
She’d burn with the rest of them , the dozens upon dozens of corpses Homicide cleaned up weekly , incinerated en masse in the Morgue’s regular Wednesday-night fry .
All the better to hide the evidence .
Once the body was gone , so was Vivian .
Or so I thought .
But I’d miscalculated something .
The agitating from DC kept shaking our quiet little tree , right up until the girl’s body went missing .
Then , holy hell broke loose .
And I sat right in the middle of it .
It’s hard to say what exactly happened .
No , scratch that , I know exactly what happened , but I’m not going to tell you at this point because you’d call me a fool .
At the time , when the girl’s body vanished from the Morgue , I had no more fucking idea what was happening than you do now .
Of course , the powers-that-be screamed conspiracy .
The Progs had snatched the girl’s corpse before we could incinerate the evidence .
That didn’t seem likely to me , but whatever , it was a working theory .
The Feds came down on the situation like a ton of bricks .
The FBI found some pretext for having jurisdiction in the case , I can’t remember what .
Next thing we know , it’s like Mogadishu in downtown Seattle .
Black semi-trailers rolling in , and armed SWAT storming the Town Hall .
We were suddenly a city under siege .
They sent everybody but Seal Team Six .
And I bet they had them on standby , sitting on a carrier off the coast .
The FBI brought in one of their new “Response Units.” Nice name for an occupying army .
They setup Ops right in front of the Town Hall , blocking off Sixth Avenue .
The semi-trailers transformed like Voltron into a sprawling complex of communications , logistics and command .
Everywhere men in dark suits were talking into headsets , as IT geeks tapped away at consoles .
It was a thing of beauty to watch , like watching a well-executed , synchronized drill team go through its routine .
Everywhere , people were toting iron .
Men in body armor , sporting FBI in big yellow letters , carrying assault rifles and submachine guns .
If they planned to shoot dead everyone in Seattle and sort the corpses , they were ready .
Otherwise I didn’t see the need for all the guns .
It made everyone tetchy , as you can imagine .
But the NeoCons did nothing in half measures .
To them , everything was a war .
This was when my life really started to get complicated .
This was when I met Constantine .
Chapter 2 “You are Detective Fonseca ? ” Special Agent Constantine said across the foldout table .
He looked me up and down like I was something he’d scraped off his shoe .
Maybe I was ; we sure contrasted : Constantine in his tailored black suit , me in corduroys and my vintage , fur-lined , leather bomber .
I took my smokes out of my pocket and flipped open the lid of the box .
Constantine proceeded to scowl in a fashion that told me , in no uncertain terms , that smoking was not allowed in his GI Joe Mobile Command Center .
“That’s right , ” I replied , putting away my pack of Kools .
I only wanted a smoke to have something to do with my hands .
They felt like two slabs of pork hanging from my arms .
I had no idea what to do with them .
“Sasha Isaac Fonseca ? ” Constantine rolled my name around in his mouth like he was chewing on marbles .
“What sort of name is that ? ” “Sephardic Jew , ” I said , not really thinking about who I was talking to .
“Via North Africa and Mexico , pre-Porfiriato.” Oh fuck .
That had done it .
Now Constantine was giving me that look , the look like I was one of them .
I wasn’t totally sure exactly which “them” I was silently being accused of being , a kike or beaner .
Did it matter ?
Ascension to power had not meant the NeoCons had lost their Social Conservative , Good Ol’ Boy , Southern roots .
If the special agent ranked anywhere in the NeoCon’s New World Order , he’d be a true believer .
“But I was born in Cleveland , if that helps , ” I added , feeling the need to apologize for my lack of WASPness .
I tried putting my hands in the pockets of my jacket , but that was no good .
It was uncomfortable sitting in the chair like that , so I pulled them out .
Man , I needed a cigarette .
“You were the LI on this case ? ” Constantine held up a printout that was undoubtedly the Montavez case .
“I guess.” I played dumb .
“Female , twenty-three , ” he read .
“No identification or distinguishing marks ... a Jane Doe ? ” “That’s right.” I scratched the stubble on my chin .
Constantine leaned back in his folding chair and looked me over .
“A Jane Doe who up and walks out of the Morgue in the middle of the night .
All on her own ? ” I shrugged .
“I wouldn’t know anything about that.” “No , you wouldn’t .
But you’re the lead investigator on a murder case without a body .
Doesn’t that interest you at all , Fonseca ? ” “Sure , ” I said , sarcastically , “that’s real interesting.” Constantine didn’t like my tone .
“Aren’t you , at least , a little curious as to what has happened to her ? ” “No , not my department.” “Oh ? ” Constantine crossed his arms and gave me a self-satisfied smirk .
“How’s that ? ” “I’m Homicide , ” I chuckled .
“She’s dead .
She can’t get murdered twice.” “Cut the bullshit , Fonseca .
I know you falsified this report.” I said nothing .
“I know what DNA match Forensics got back on the body.” “Hey—” I started .
“You and I both know who the girl was , ” Constantine interrupted .
“I’m not upset that you falsified this report .
On the contrary , this was some quick thinking .
If I had my way , we’d pin a goddamn medal on you .
But , what I need to know , Fonseca , is who else did you tell about this girl before you got it in your head to change the names ? ” “Nobody , ” I answered quickly .
For once , I could tell the truth .
“As I said , cut the bullshit.” “No , seriously.” I held up my hands in surrender .
“The God’s honest truth.” “Somebody knew where this body was , Detective .
And who she really was.” “If they did , they didn’t hear it from me.” “It would be very serious mistake to interfere with my investigation at this critical juncture , ” Constantine said formally .
Me ?
Cut the bullshit ?
He needed to cut the bullshit .
He was treating me like a perp .
Hell , I’d used that line myself a thousand times .
Did he think I was an idiot ?
As soon as Larinda possibly could , she made her way toward the staircase and the second floor , where she hoped to escape the bevy of well-wishers .
Just a few moments of quiet , she thought , glancing at the people who surrounded her .
I suppose I should feel selfish and guilty for leaving , but I don’t have the energy .
Just as she finally reached the stairs , she was stopped once more by Grant’s voice calling her name .
He came forward and briefly patted her on the shoulder .
“I know how hard this is for you , Larinda , losing both of your parents .
I wish now we’d never let them go to Lubbock.” “You couldn’t have known , ” Larinda said , praying he couldn’t see how much she agreed with him .
“They did what they thought best , but I miss them so much and the pain seems to have doubled since the funeral this afternoon .
I keep thinking about my birth parents , and how I’ve now lost both my natural and adoptive parents .
It’s almost too much.” Grant reached to take her hand , then hesitated when she took a step back from him .
She’d had too many people paw her in the last hour and she desperately needed to escape the well-wishers .
He clenched his jaw briefly , then gave her a stiff smile .
“Still no memories ? ” he asked .
“Dreams about the past ? ” “No .
Only my imagination about the things Mom and Dad told me when I asked .
Did you know my birth parents also died in an automobile accident ?
It just doesn’t make sense.” “A lot of things in life don’t have explanations we can understand.” Larinda hesitated , then asked , “Can I get your opinion on—something ? ” “Of course .
What is it ? ” “I spoke with Hawke.” At the mere mention of Hawke’s name , Grant’s jaw tightened again .
Larinda barely held in a sigh of frustration .
Grant’s jealousy of Hawke was something that her parents had handled with skill and tact that Larinda didn’t know if she possessed .
She hoped he wasn’t going to cause problems going forward .
She went on , “He seems to think I might regain my memory when I change to unicorn for the first time .
Do you think it’s possible ? ” Grant raised his eyebrows .
“Maybe .
I was with your father when he talked to Dr. Brolan at Legacy Medical .
It wasn’t too long after you were adopted , ” he said .
“Doc told Boyd temporary loss of memory can last days or years , but unlike the full humans , the transformation to a Valens’ fate has been known to heal .
He’d seen it .
A young man he treated who was disabled , unable to walk , had his legs restored upon the transformation .
I believe other neurological and psychological conditions have also been known to heal.” He went on , changing the subject almost without pause .
Typical .
Grant couldn’t stay focused on anyone but himself for very long .
“Now , I have a question for you .
I overheard what Ambassador Magellan said to you .
You aren’t really planning on handing Legacy over to Hawke , are you ? ” “It isn’t something I’ve considered .
With all the details I’ve had to take care of since—the accident , I just haven’t put much thought into running Legacy at all.” “Don’t get me wrong , ” Grant said .
“Hawke is an intelligent man , but he treats you like a child .
He’s not your father or guardian , Larinda.” “No , you’re right .
He’s not my father .
I just buried my father today , Grant.” A flush reddened Grant’s face .
“I just mean don’t count on him for everything .
He’s not always going to place your interests first if he has the power to run your company.” Grant gave her a peck on the cheek , turned , and walked away .
He didn’t hide his jealousy well .
She knew he wanted more power , but his jibes at Hawke were not as effective as he seemed to think .
She had known him since she had been adopted by Boyd and Fiona .
Perhaps , when she returned to the office , it would be time to finally put him in his place .
She turned to go upstairs before anyone else could interrupt her plans for some privacy .
As she did , a tingle of electricity skittered along her nerves , and something she couldn’t define tugged at her memory .
She rubbed her hands over her arms .
Everything was changing , as if her world was sliding out from under her .
All she wanted was to be alone with her memories .
* * * * She’d planned to go straight to her room , but the open door to Boyd’s office beckoned her with memories of the days she had spent “working” with him when she was a child .
She ran her fingers across the glowing wood and studied the scattered piles of clutter that was—had been—her father’s only vice .
One her mother playfully picked on in a mild attempt to get him to mend his ways .
Slowly she walked to his chair and sat down , opening the center drawer of the desk .
As she suspected , there was a package of gum .
He had never been without it , whenever she’d wanted a piece .
She reached in and took one of the paper and foil wrapped sticks , noticing a large envelope with the logo and address of Jonathan Grey , the company attorney .
Pulling the packet out , she was surprised to find copies of her parents’ wills .
She glanced through the pages before returning the documents to the drawer .
Everything was as she expected , though she had forgotten that in the case she had no heir , Legacy would be turned over to a board of trustees her parents had named .
It had been a difficult decision for them , but they wanted to be sure the people who depended on Legacy would not be left without the stability the company offered them .
Her hand drifted down to the bottom side drawer .
Boyd had designated it as hers .
How long had it been since she’d opened it ?
Years .
She was surprised and touched to find it exactly as she had left it .
She reached down and removed a pink feather-tipped pen , a palm-size solar calculator that no longer worked , and her “business journal” with the fairies on the cover .
A folder she didn’t remember lay hidden underneath the journal .
She could see there was a small stack of papers inside it .
As she went to place it on the desk , a folded sheet of paper slipped into her lap .
Unfolding it , she started to read .
Her breath caught .
You have not taken heed of our warning .
Stop your investigation immediately or you and your family will perish .
Mankind no longer deserves protection and must pay for what they have done to us .
We shall reclaim our fates and our rightful place among the petty humans .
H She stared at the note in disbelief .
Was this the proof she had unconsciously been looking for ?
The reason her parents had died ?
Something in her had refused to believe it was an accident .
She refolded the paper and set it aside , reviewing the notes that remained in the folder .
Her heart stopped when she found a list of names marked only with minus and plus signs beside them .
Precisely what the marks meant eluded her , but there was no doubt her father had been investigating the people named .
Trust ? ?
was written along the top of the page .
An icy claw gripped her stomach and twisted as she read the names of the people he had been suspicious of .
Griffin H - Grant M + Jon G Declan S - There were a dozen more names that blurred as her eyes filled with tears .
Had the writer of the letter murdered her parents ?
What did the marks on the list mean ?
Was there anyone she could trust ?
Then there was the question she was most afraid to ask .
Was she the next target ?
Chapter Two Jemma Jemma walked down the Seattle street , watching the faces of those around her , alert for anyone who might be looking for her .
She studied the woman across the street , who wore the dowdy dress and stick-up-her-derriere look of the social terrorists who wanted you to think you were stupid for leaving the “wonderful” home they had placed you in .
No , the woman wasn’t one of them—too easily distracted by the kid tugging at her arm .
Someone reached out and touched her shoulder .
She spun around , glaring into the red angry face of a middle-aged guy , the stink of whiskey oozing from his overdressed pores .
Just an uptown drunk on a downtown street .
Not one of the Social Services know-it-alls who refused to believe the truth when they heard it .
The amount of work needing to be done was overwhelming not to mention the expense of it all .
Carpets , televisions , mattress sets , new furnishings and bathrooms fixtures was just a partial list of some of the things he would need .
He estimated that it would take another 25 to 30 million dollars to get the hotel in operating order and he wanted it to be nothing short of spectacular .
On the 7th floor he entered a grand suite of rooms that could have only been intended for the hotel manager or owner .
It was the largest of all the suites with six rooms .
Each of the doors and windows were arched in the Spanish style .
This would be his residence while at the Grand he thought as looked around imagining how he would fix it up .
He would have to hire at least four construction crews and wondered if the small town of Mystic had that many workers that were willing to work .
He would put one crew to work in the lobby , the second crew would start with the Cloud Room , and he wanted another on the 7th to refurbish his suite and one crew to work on the exterior of the place .
He would have to call someone that specialized in swimming pool repair , not to mention someone that worked on elevators .
His mind was bogged down in details ; he would have to have the power turned on , get the phone company out there .
His mind was several days ahead of the here and now when he stepped back out in the hall where the strong smell of chocolate filled the air .
The sweet aroma pulled him from his thoughts as he suddenly remembered the smell when he was a boy and his mother would make candy in her kitchen .
“Chocolate ? ” he asked himself as took a few steps down the hall .
He could understand the musty smells throughout the old hotel , but chocolate ?
Why would he be smelling chocolate ?
Chapter 3 Within a few days the saws were buzzing , hammers were beating and the smell of paint inside the hotel lobby filled the air .
There was a parade of carpenters , plumbers , electricians and all of their helpers everywhere around the Grand .
High on top of the hotel , roofers worked to put the new roof on and get the leaks stopped so there would be no more water damage from the rains .
Things were coming along nicely and much faster than Mike had anticipated .
His suite on the 7th floor was completed first and he went inside for an inspection .
It was perfect , he could now get out of the dingy motel that he was currently staying and move in .
He walked over to the window and looked down at the pool .
The workers were gone since it was past quitting time , but they had made a lot of progress in the past few days .
The pool itself was finished and was being filled with water .
All that remained to be done was some stone work and a few repairs in the lounge area .
It was then that she caught his eye ; it looked like a woman laying there in an awkward position on the ground near the pool area entrance .
Mike quickly opened the window and yelled down at her , but there was no response .
He turned and rushed out the door to the elevator wanting to know who was on his property so he could confront them .
When he got to the lobby , he ran to the doors that led to the pool entrance , standing on the veranda , he looked out to where the woman was laying on the ground , there was no one there .
He walked on out to the pool area and looked in all directions , there was no sign of anyone .
He thought of getting some no trespassing signs and posting them , but changed his mind thinking that they were tacky .
Mike went inside the hotel and rode the elevator back to the 7th floor to his suite .
The first thing he noticed when he stepped out into the hall from the elevator was the strong smell of chocolate .
He wondered , just where in the hell is that smell coming from ?
He looked down the hall to his left and up the hall to his right and saw nothing .
His curiosity was going to drive him crazy if he didn’t find out .
He turned right and started walking all the way down to the end the hall where he began checking the rooms ; it was a great time to make an inspection since the floor supervisor had told him that all of the rooms on the 7th floor were near completion .
Each of the rooms was freshly painted with new bathroom fixtures and was ready for the carpet and furniture .
He was very satisfied with the work that the men had done .
He went right past his suite on his inspection ; the chocolate smell was still there , but no quite as strong .
The chocolate aroma seemed to be mainly in the hall and it was stronger on down toward the end of the hall , but he continued looking in each of the rooms , Mike knew that there had to be something somewhere that would produce such an aroma .
Perhaps it was something in the air conditioning .
After two hours and looking and inspecting the rooms , it was well after dark by the time he reached the last room .
He opened the door and walked inside , the smell of chocolate was strong , but the room was empty .
Seeing a glass on the windowsill he stepped over to the window and picked it up and saw that there was lipstick on the edge of it .
So , that was it , someone on the construction crew had a woman up there during the day and was entertaining instead of working during his shift .
He took the glass with him and stepped back out into the hall .
As he was walking toward the suite all of the lights suddenly went off .
It was overwhelming how dark the Grand was a night with no lights , Mike couldn’t see a thing as he stretched out his hands feeling his way down the hall in the darkness .
In front of him was a wall of blackness as he slowly made his way down the hall that was devoid of any light .
Knowing that the elevator would not work without electricity , he turned back around and started for the end of the hall where he was because the stairwell was located on the opposite side of the hall from the room where he had found the glass .
With no depth perception at all , he stepped over his left until he could feel the wall and with his fingertips of his left hand touching it , he walked on until he could feel the door on the left at the end of the hall .
He opened the door and feeling the wall with his right hand , he slowly made his way down the first flight of steps .
Knowing that he had to concentrate , he tried to keep count of the steps on the stairs .
There were ten , then turn and ten more .
That would be one floor .
He started on the 7th floor and he would have to go to the basement for the electric panel .
He wondered how he would even be able to find that in the darkness because he was uncertain of where it even was .
Deciding that it would be best just to make his way to the lobby where could at least have some light from the city lights through the windows , he slowly climbed down the flights of stairs .
When he made it to what he thought should be the first floor , he felt for the doorknob , opened the door and stepped out into the lobby .
He sighed his relief as he could see a little bit of light and made his way out the front doors .
“Somebody’s gon na get their ass chewed for this , ” he said to himself as he stepped out on the veranda and headed to his pickup so he could go to his motel room .
Jim , the electrical contractor , Richard , the construction contractor , and Carlos , the outside construction contractor found themselves in Mike’s office in the lobby of the hotel early the next morning .
“I had a hell of a night last night , ” Mike began , “and so I am going to start at the beginning .
Carlos , make double damned sure that your men lock the fence gate out there at the pool in the evening and secure everything .
I saw a woman goofing around out there yesterday evening after everybody left .
I went down there to tell her that she was trespassing , but she was gone before I could get down there .
I know that there’s a lot of people around town here that is curious about what we’re doing here and I damned sure don’t want somebody screwin’ around here and getting hurt.” “Yes , sir , ” Carlos agreed .
“I’ll tell them to make sure that everything is locked up.” Mike then turned to Richard .
“Your guys are doing a great job up there on the 7th floor .
My suite looks great as does the rest of the floor .
However , one of your men is screwin’ off .
I was making an inspection up there last night a found that one of your men had a woman in one of the rooms yesterday.” He held up the glass with the lipstick smear on it .
“I found this in the room and I think this is bullshit .
You know good and well I don’t want anybody in this hotel that don’t work here and if this happens again , heads are gon na roll.” “I’ll find out who it was and when I do find out , I’ll guarantee that it won’t happen again , ” Richard told him .
Mike nodded in agreement .
“Okay , you guys get out of here and get your crews to work.” They stood up to leave and when they had gone , he looked over at Jim .
“Jim , you got any idea just how dark this son of a bitch gets at night when the lights go out ? ” Jim shook his head no .
“Well , I do , I’ve got some firsthand experience in it and I want you to have your men fix this so the damned switches won’t be flipping off .
I want an emergency generator installed just in case of power outages and I want the damned elevators to work no matter what .
It’s bullshit to be making your way down from the 7th floor in a total blackout.” “I agree , Mike , I agree and we’ll gon na get that fixed.” Carlos confronted his crew about leaving the pool gate opened .
All of them denied it and assured him that they did not .
Richard’s crew also denied that any of them brought a woman on the 7th floor except for one .
A worker named Refugio nervously stepped forward .
“Can I show you something ? ” he asked Richard .
Richard nodded and followed the young man down the hall to the last door on the right .
Refugo entered the room , went inside and walked over to the windowsill where he picked up a glass with a lipstick smear on the edge and brought it over to Richard .
“This wasn’t in here when I left yesterday.” Richard was puzzled when he looked down at the glass in disbelief .
It was identical to the one that Mike had sitting on his desk and knew that the glass that Mike had found was from this same room .
Jim was in the basement putting new switches in the row of electrical panels when he heard a woman in high heels walk up behind him .
He hurried to get the switch in place so he could turn around and face her .
“Can I help you ? ” he asked only to find that no one was there when he turned around .
Chapter 4 Mike looked up from his paperwork and was glad to see Richard standing in his office doorway because he had a chore for some of the guys in his crew .
“Richard , would you get a couple of your boys to carry my stuff up to the room ? ” Richard held up the glass that Refugio had shown him .
“I just wanted to compare this to the glass that you have sitting on your desk.” “Where’d you get that ? ” Mike asked looking the glass over .
“7th floor .
Same room that you found your’s in .
Refugio found it this morning .
He said that it wasn’t there yesterday when he left.” Mike took the glass from him and sat it down on his desk next to the other one to compare them .
Most gobble up his bullshit wholesale .
Norrah didn’t feel the same way about him or she wouldn’t have let him in her house , but I suspect she was lured in by his good looks , though she won’t admit it .
When I pester her about it she blushes and changes the subject , so you be the judge .
February 14th was the day it happened .
By February 15th Lake Arrowhead was a town that most American’s were knowledgeable of .
By February 21st a respectable percentage of the world had heard of Lake Arrowhead .
The largest unsolved mystery of all time , many people say .
I was patrolling highway 18 when I got the call from dispatch .
Never when dispatch calls do you think this is the time that everything changes , that this call is the one that you’re going to be writing a fucking book about .
I took the call indifferently , how was I to know ?
I was the second officer to arrive ; Fred Guthrie the fat ass had just pulled up when I got there .
An hour later every cop on the mountain was there .
Twenty-three people gone missing under highly unusual circumstances will do that .
The F.B.I .
didn’t arrive till the next day , as people aren’t considered to be missing until twenty-four hours have passed .
Instead of telling you what we found ( or didn’t find ) , I’m going to recite Norrah’s story for you , a story which she’s told me time and time again .
I will make no exaggerations whatsoever and will confer with her often as I write the particulars .
I honestly wish she’d write this shit .
But I’ve come to love her , and there is little I wouldn’t do for her .
So here it goes : Part 1 : Chapter One A man with red skin , horns , and a tail walks into a pub on Halloween , sits at the bar .
Impressed , the bartender whistles and says , “You take your costuming serious , huh ? ” “I do , ” the man replies .
“Well it’s a special occasion , so why not , eh ? ” “It is .
It’s the only day all year I don’t have to wear one.” The weather forecasters had gotten it all wrong , as they often do .
I swear , it could be twenty-one degrees out and they’ll predict a low of thirty-three .
Or they will say eighty percent chance of snow when if they stuck their damned heads outside they’d see that it’s already snowing .
I digress .
The storm that was due to arrive on Monday night , February 15th , had arrived Saturday night , the evening before Valentine’s Day .
Two feet of snow dumped on the mountain like Jack Frost took a massive icy shit , blanketing the San Bernardino forest with holy whiteness .
Cal Trans is great at clearing the roads , and come Sunday morning , cars didn’t need chains to traverse the winding mountain roads .
That Valentine’s Day morning Norrah was getting ready for work at Stater Brothers when her bottom-floor tenant Paul Klein lifted the hatch and entered the living room .
It wasn’t off-limits to him to be above the basement floor , but it was understood that his place was down there and her place was up there , and there was little-to-no need for him to come up .
Norrah had just shut off the blow-dryer in her third-floor bathroom when she heard Paul holler , “Hello-hello ! ” Norrah cinched her robe’s belt and took a couple steps down the top flight of stairs .
“Hi , Paul , ” she said with her charming smile—she really is a cute little devil , and that smile makes me fall in love with her all over again every time I see it .
“Morning , Norrah .
I was hoping we could talk for a few minutes .
I know you’re leaving for work soon , but it’s kind of important.” “Uh… okay.” She went downstairs and took a seat at the dining room table .
Paul sat opposite her .
He wore black slacks and a dark blue golf shirt .
His black hair was slightly wavy and always looked wet .
He looked like he belonged in any number of teen-heartthrob movies .
It was easy to smile at him , easy to get a little lost in his hazel eyes .
He’s the kind of guy that you find yourself telling too-personal things to in hope that he’ll reciprocate a juicy nugget of his own .
She felt uncomfortable wearing nothing but a bath robe , just a little tug on her cloth-belt away from being nude before this good looking boy , but it wasn’t by her design : he came up to see her .
She crossed her legs under the table and asked how he was doing .
“Great , thank you .
I’ll make this quick , since you have to leave here in , ” he checked his wristwatch , “what , fifteen minutes ? ” She nodded .
“I have a huge favor to ask you .
I know I said I wasn’t going to have many people over , and I respect your wish of quietude here”—quietude , who the hell says quietude ? —“but something’s come up .
There are some guys I go to school with , and every year on Valentine’s Day there’s a party .
A masquerade party .
It was going to be at Taylor’s house this year ; he lives just a few miles from here .
Something came up and the place is a no-go .
We all had our hearts set on having the party up in the mountains ; you know… cozy snow , roaring fire , forest ; and being that your house is so near Taylor’s , it seemed like a good logistical alternative .
So I—” “How many people are we talking ? ” “Not many .
I believe something like eight guys and their dates .
Maybe a couple others , but I don’t know for sure .
They’re all students of University of Redlands , good considerate guys and girls .
I trust them all .
We won’t be rowdy , you have my word.” “From what time till what time ? ” Paul looked up and away , considered it .
“Eight till about one or two in the morning .
We’ll have the music turned down by midnight.” “I suppose it would be all right , if it’s a one-time thing .
Don’t get in the habit of having get-togethers here .
It’s not that I don’t trust—” Paul held up a hand to stop her , grinned sidelong , and said , “No need to say it .
I haven’t been here long , I don’t expect you to trust me .
But we’ll keep the party downstairs , so there won’t be any reason to worry about things breaking or stuff getting stolen .
And being that the nearest house is what , fifty yards away or better ? —I doubt anyone will know we’re here other than you.” “All right , ” Norrah said , “it should be fine .
I work the early shift tomorrow so I’ll be in bed by eleven .
If you could keep it down at around that time I’d appreciate it .
I sleep on the third floor , but can still hear music from down below .
Do that for me and we have a deal.” “Awesome.” “One other thing .
Would you mind parking your truck on the street or farther to the right on the driveway from now on ?
It’s a big truck , not a big driveway.” “Consider it done.” Paul stood and extended his hand .
She shook it with a smile and left the table , went upstairs to dress .
Early that evening Norrah was driving home from work when it began snowing again .
Just a light snow , more of an afterword to the storm that landed last night .
She parked her Camry on the driveway beside an Infinity sedan she had never before seen , in the place of Paul’s usual Dodge truck .
She wondered if he traded it in .
She went inside and locked the door behind her .
Paul must have heard her arrive because he went upstairs through the open hatch shortly after .
He was dressed in black slacks and a white dress-shirt with a red bow-tie .
Was he really going to wear a tux tonight ?
She wondered .
He asked if she had any scotch tape he could borrow , and some tacks and a hammer .
She had tape and a hammer but no tacks , sorry .
He thanked her and waited for her to collect the two items .
When she handed them over he said , “You should come hang out with us tonight , if you’d like.” Her brow arched .
“Me ? ” She considered it was more of a polite gesture than an honest invitation .
She was thirty , while he presumably wasn’t old enough to buy booze yet .
But maybe he was .
He possessed that youthful appearance that lasts a lifetime , like Dick Clark had .
She considered herself to be a young-looking thirty , and guys did check her out when she was checking them out ( groceries , that is ) but still… they were college kids and if the others looked anything like Paul Klein , they could do a lot better than Norrah—her words , not mine ; if you ask me , Norrah is the best any man could do .
“Thanks , but I don’t think that would be a good idea.” “Suit yourself , but you’re welcome to join us.” He turned and took a couple steps down the stairs through the portal while adding , “Might be a single guy or two .
They’d be all over you.” “Wait , ” she said after him .
He stopped and looked back ; only his shoulders and head remained above the landing .
“What do you mean by that ? ” “Oh I don’t mean anything like that .
I’m sorry , that sounded suggestive .
I just mean you’re an attractive woman and they’d appreciate it .
That’s all.” She nodded slightly .
“That’s sweet of you to say , but I don’t believe that .
A resident spotted a suspicious-looking man walking through an alley .
By the time police arrived , the man was gone .
They decided to seal the area for four or five miles , and work their way in.” “Just as dawn broke , and the sun began to rise , another call came in to police just a short distance away from the original call .
A resident was taking out his garbage when he saw a man sitting in a brushy , wooded area across the street .
He couldn’t give a good description , but he thought of it as unusual .
Again , when police arrived , he was gone , but this time , the dogs picked up a scent .
The helicopters were called in , and the hounds barked and howled louder than you ever heard before .
They felt that they were closing in on him .
The wooded area led to another neighborhood just on the other side.” The old man was very dramatic in telling his stories .
“This area had less people , and with daylight on their side , the police felt that they would find him as they approached from both directions .
The hounds closed in on a garage next to a vacant house .
After getting in place , they burst into the garage and found some bloody clothes and a mask that matched the description that Mark Ellis had given them earlier .
The suspect was not in the garage , so they focused on the vacant house .
Surrounding the house , they broke through the front and back doors at the same time , ” he said with excitement building in his voice .
“Police were shot at as gunfire erupted in a backroom .
They had no choice but to fire back , hitting the suspect several times .
They called an ambulance to try to save the man , who they suspected to be The Mangler .
The ambulance crew stabilized him on the way to Saint Vincent Hospital , ” the old man said , as he pointed across the main road , “right over there.” The boys looked over their shoulders at the vacant hospital .
“After arriving , Coleman’s condition worsened , but not before he told a FBI agent that he was indeed , David Henry Coleman , The Mangler .
He confessed to all the murders as two other agents looked on .
Coleman’s expression was heartless , and one of a remorseless murderer.” “A day later and still in ICU , Coleman’s hand began to shake violently.” The old man paused here , looking at the ground in front of him .
“The nurse walked over to him and he grabbed her arm quickly , just in reach of his handcuffed wrist , looked her in the eye and said , ‘I will be back , and I will return , and kill again and again .
I will haunt this place forever ! ’ They say his eyes stayed open , staring at the nurse , until he died .
She screamed and shook her arm away from his grip .
The FBI rushed in , but The Mangler was already dead.” Jake paused , making the boys wait a little longer .
“They say he walks the halls of the old hospital with his sickle and drags his chain .
The anniversary of his death is coming up this week.” The old man paused again , and lit his cigar .
“That’s the story of The Mangler.” Old Man Jake knew how to tell a story .
The three , wide-eyed , thirteen-year-old kids , on their bikes , stared at Jake .
Two of them , Doug and Kyle , heard stories from him before , but it never got old .
The other boy , Brandon , was new in town .
They brought him to Jake’s so he could hear the tale of The Mangler .
Jake , an older black man in his sixties , lived in the neighborhood across the street from Saint Vincent Hospital , for thirty years .
He knew the hospital in its hey-day , when it was the only hospital in town .
He saw the demise , as the new times rolled in , and newer buildings were built , all in the name of business and opportunity .
After hearing Jake tell them the story , the boys headed out on their bikes towards the hospital , but not without one last word from Jake .
“Y’all be careful now , ” he said , as he took one last puff from his cigar before smothering it under his shoe .
The boys , way up the sidewalk by then , waved back as they sped off .
“Best be careful , ” Jake said quietly to himself , knowing how kids rarely listened to advice from adults .
< > < > < > Built in the late 1940s , Saint Vincent Hospital , stood tall at five stories , overlooking that side of town .
At the time it was built , it was a massive hospital , covering over 280,000 square feet .
It stayed in business until 2004 , when its ownership had completed the transition to a newer , more modern version of the hospital , built on the other side of town .
Since the closure of the original hospital , there have been many reports of it being haunted .
A private business used the building for a short period after its closure .
Most of the reports of hauntings came from staff and late-night security guards .
The old building was finally shut down in 2006 and sits on top of a small hill making it appear taller and bigger than it was .
Set against the evening western sky , it is a dark and menacing site for those who believe the place is haunted .
To keep trespassers out , the windows were boarded up , and a fence was put up along the edge of the property .
Not too long ago , the property owners hired a contract company to do some minor , structural repair work on the lower level .
Just as the three-week project was about to end , contract worker Ed Payton was found one morning , hung to death from an overhead rafter , a chain wrapped around his neck .
There was no suicide note , or any reason in his personal life as to why he would hang himself , but the death was ruled a suicide anyway .
His death sparked the rumors of The Mangler still haunting the building , especially since a chain was involved , one of his trademark tools .
The thing that made his death peculiar was that there was no stool , no box , or no ladder for Ed Payton to climb up on to do it himself .
He just hung freely , in his work clothes , his feet more than five feet from the ground .
Rumors circulated that his face had a look of fear and terror , not the look of someone who wanted to kill himself .
After the investigation was complete , more fencing was put up to secure the grounds around the old building .
But during the summers , it was hard to keep junior high kids like , Doug , Kyle , and now Brandon , from finding ways in and exploring .
High school kids were the bravest , and were always being run out of the area by police .
David Henry Coleman died on the fourth floor in ICU—that floor is said to be most haunted .
People have reported hearing chains rattling and the sound of scraping metal , possibly along the pipes and railings .
Rumors can get exaggerated over time , but when a haunting is suspected , like that at the hospital , the reported sounds are much more believable .
An assessment for structural integrity was required for the building once a year , and over that time only once have any of the people in that group reported something strange .
A woman who was inspecting the fourth floor said she heard noises coming from near the old ICU hall .
She walked further down the dark hall with her flashlight .
About halfway down she said she heard the sound of a chain dragging on the floor , coming from the next room up .
That scared her enough for her to turn around and head back down to the first floor .
She wouldn’t go back on the fourth floor , even after her coworkers went up there and found nothing .
Not many dared to go up there after that .
< > < > < > Doug and Kyle took Brandon over to the back of the hospital so he could get a good look at the scary side of it .
Even in the day , the hospital took on an ominous look .
The backside of the hospital is where all the kids would sneak in through a spot in the fence near the sidewall .
Brandon stood , straddling his bike , with one foot on the ground .
His eyes looked over the building from top to bottom .
Doug and Kyle were riding their bikes around the fence line to the far corner .
He quickly jumped up on his seat and peddled towards them .
The lower portion of the back of the hospital resembled a huge patio .
The covered area was extended to provide shade from the evening sun , making it a makeshift break and lunch area .
A couple of the concrete tables and chairs were still there .
They hid their bikes behind some overgrown shrubs and went in through their secret spot in the fence and walked towards the covered area .
“You’re pretty brave Brandon .
I never made it this far my first time , ” Doug said .
“Quit trying to scare him , ” Kyle said .
“It’s okay , nothing to be scared of , ” Kyle said to Brandon , as they walked further in .
The covered area was at least sixty feet wide and another forty feet from the edge of the cover to the back entrance .
Despite the afternoon sun , the further they walked , the darker it got .
They stopped a few feet from the entrance .
The owners had the doors boarded with plywood and locked with chains .
“Most people think you can’t get in , but we know a way .
Want to go in ? ” Doug asked , as he looked at Brandon .
Brandon was usually game for things like this , but he was a little nervous , and Doug was pushing him to go further .
“Yeah , let’s go , ” Brandon said .
Kyle looked on .
They had done this a few times before , and it was always fun to show someone the haunted hospital for the first time .
Doug led them to a corner where the walls intersected and disappeared behind a piece of plywood .
Brandon and Kyle waited for a moment before Doug reappeared smiling .
“We can still get in.” Then he promptly disappeared again .
They followed him behind the plywood and through an old rusty door that opened enough to allow them to pass through .
The hall was dark and damp , accompanied by a wet , musty smell .
Doug and Kyle turned on their flashlights .
Graffiti lined the walls in various colors and styles .
But at that moment he stopped , turned back towards me and yelled , “Is your telephone number in the book ? ” “Yes , ” I yelled back .
“Good ! ” My dreams that night were filled with Michael and great sex .
In the morning I lay in bed thinking about great sex and Michael .
Saturday morning breakfast on the deck of my apartment has always been one of my favorite hours of the week .
But that morning it seemed lonely and dull .
I showered , dressed and was tying up my shoes for a beach jog when the phone rang .
I tripped over my shoe laces diving for the phone .
“Olivia , hi .
This is Michael Bauer.” A breathless , “Hi , ” was all I could manage .
“It looks like a great day up here in Oceanside .
How is it in Encinitas ? ” “It’s warm and sunny .
No May gray at all .
I just had breakfast on my deck.” “Would you care for a beach walk this morning ? ” “ ... Yes , I’d love it.” “Great .
How about 10 o’clock ? ” “That would be perfect.” The morning newspaper was in my hands , and I was pretending to read it , when Michael drove up and parked in front of my condo .
I watched as he got out of his car as my insides filled with a thousand butterflies .
He smiled , waved and galloped up the twenty wooden stairs .
We stood a foot apart , grinning at each other until he stepped so close to me I was sure he could hear my heart beating .
“Hi , ” he said as he cradled my face in both his hands .
Our first kiss was gentle .
The second was long and intense .
Then he looked at me , smiled and said , “How’s your cat ? ” Before I could answer , he said , “We’d better go for that beach walk or I might rip your clothes off.” At the bottom of the stairs he took my hand , kissed me lightly , and said , “You lead the way.” The tide was low , the sun was warm .
I can’t remember if there were other people walking or not .
I only knew I was with Michael , holding hands with Michael .
We walked north on the sandy beach .
Neither of us spoke a word for several minutes until I said , “The wedding was beautiful.” He stopped walking .
Fixing his eyes on me , he said , “So are you .
You have a simple , natural beauty .
Please don’t ever lose it.” We walked until the tide was about to cut us off , then ran off into the streets of Encinitas .
We stopped for coffee , scrambled eggs and French fries at the Morning Spread Café overlooking the beach .
We held hands while we ate and as we walked back to my condo .
Stopping at the foot of the stairs , Michael asked , “Does your cat get jealous ? ” “Yes .
Like a tiger.” “Guess I’ll have to fight him off.” We ran up the stairs two at a time .
When we were inside he asked , “Do you have a bed in one of those rooms ? ” “Follow me.” We barely made it to the bedroom , throwing off clothes as we ran .
We fell onto the bed .
I could barely breathe .
I wanted him so much I would have ripped his penis from his body and inserted it myself if he hadn’t entered me at that moment .
When he did , I exploded in the longest and most powerful orgasm I 'd ever known .
“That was quite a welcome , ” he said , as he lay beside me with his head propped up on his hand .
That evening they could have put a plate of cooked worms in front of me and I wouldn’t have known the difference .
I only cared that Michael was there .
The second evening we took sandwiches and beer to the beach and sat on the sand , our bodies close , our bare feet buried together , watching the sun disappear into the Pacific Ocean .
`` You know what they say , don’t you ? ” Michael whispered into my ear .
“If you see the green flash , you’re about to fall in love.” His face was so close to mine I could feel his breath on my cheek .
“Yes , I’ve heard that.” I turned to him .
His face was so serious he looked almost in pain .
“I think I just saw the flash , ” he whispered .
Michael stayed with me that night , and we made love more memorable than the night before .
At some point during the night I dreamt I was awake .
I was walking somewhere outdoors .
I could n't tell where I was .
It was cold and windy .
In the distance I saw fifteen or twenty men running towards me , hailing me .
As they came closer , I saw they were soldiers .
Soldiers from different eras , different wars .
Some wore bloody uniforms .
A few leaned on crutches .
Others carried rifles .
All were faceless and moaning .
They reached for me , trying to touch me .
I wanted to run , but I couldn’t move .
I turned away and tried to scream , but I couldn’t make a sound .
I awoke , shaking and soaked with perspiration .
Slipping out of bed , I tiptoed into the bathroom , lifted a towel from the hook and splashed water on my face .
I sat on the edge of the tub until I stopped trembling .
After an hour , I went back to my room and climbed into bed .
Afraid of returning to my dream , I did not let myself sleep .
To my joy , Michael came by every evening that week .
We sat on the deck drinking beer and eating sandwiches , talking about everything and nothing .
We danced to ‘60’s radio music .
We kissed constantly .
One evening Michael made hats from the newspaper .
It was my first gift from Michael and I was thrilled .
The next night he taught me an Irish jig .
As the sun went down we made love , caring more deeply for each other by the hour .
I never felt so happy in my life .
I couldn’t stop smiling .
The following weekend we drove up to Santa Barbara , where Michael had promised , “At the end of the pier you 'll find the best clam chowder and ice cream cones in California.” We did .
We sat at the end of the dock eating our chowder from hollowed out bread rolls .
We each had two scoops of double chocolate ice cream , licking the drips off each other’s chins as we giggled our way back to the car , oblivious to the rest of the world .
Five months later , after spending every free minute together , Michael stopped suddenly during a hike in the woods , kneeling on one knee on the wet autumn leaves .
He looked up at me with tears in his eyes and said , “Me darlin , ’ I’ve somethin’ I’m in need of sayin.” He hesitated and kissed my hand .
“I love you .
Will you be my wife ? ” “Oh , Michael ... ” “Oh , Michael ... what ? ” “I love you .
Of course , I’ll marry you.” I couldn’t wait to tell my parents about our engagement .
I was sure they would be thrilled for me .
How could they not be ?
The greatest guy in the world had asked me to marry him .
The next morning I called to make sure they would both be home .
I parked in the driveway of the only colonial style home in a row of small tan and pink adobe style homes .
The stately home was daddy 's bribe to get mother to agree to move inland to Escondido , closer to his work , but away from her beloved ocean .
Mother greeted me with a warm hug .
She looked , as always , beautifully coifed and was wearing her “before noon clothes , ” as she called her bright red cotton morning coat that zipped up in front .
“I can unzip , hop out fast , do some dusting , and jump back in , if someone comes to the door .
Perfect for a woman who doesn’t want a house keeper under foot.” “Hi , darling .
Daddy had an errand to do .
He’ll be back in an hour or so .
Come on in and we’ll catch up.” I followed her to the living room sofa .
She sat down and patted the overstuffed seat beside her .
“Come and sit .
I know how obsessed the Masters are with their wives not gaining weight , but I hardly think that one extra cookie will do it .
Besides , how ironic is it for Grinder to be on Jana for taking an extra cookie when he and the other Elders stole us from our families to bring us here and make us into their slaves .
How ironic is that ?
`` You 're one of my wives !
The wife of the holiest man in Paradise Village , the son of the Great Master himself !
You 're supposed to be an example to all the other wives in Paradise Village !
Stand up , Jana ! ''
I do n't want to see what 's coming next , so I grab my broom and rush to the storage closet .
Before shutting the door behind me , I hear the resounding whacks of the discipline club .
Jana shrieks in agonizing pain .
I slump to the floor as soon as I 'm inside the closet and cover my ears with my hands .
But I can still hear the raging of the blows and the anguished cries of Jana .
The walls are n't thick enough for the violence that happens in this house .
A bloody and unconscious Jana is rushed to the hospital when the horrible abuse is finally over .
It must 've been at least twenty minutes of a nonstop beating .
I quickly return to my housework before Grinder turns his fury on me .
He acts as if nothing vile just happened .
The rest of his wives go on with their usual activities .
No one accompanies Jana to emergency .
How people get used to evil I do n't know .
I 'm still shaking when I leave that inferno .
I 'm tempted to head towards the hospital but if Grinder finds out I visited Jana instead of doing my work , there will be two of us in I.C.U .
And this time there 's no Master Barstowe to keep Grinder from knocking me senseless .
I tell myself to concentrate on taking one step at a time until I make it to the Mister 's household .
If my knees give out in the middle of the street , I may be beaten by any of the Masters or Elders for loitering .
With a huge sigh of relief , my hand grasps the doorknob at the Barstowe home .
I manage to open it before my shaky legs threaten to finally give completely out .
`` Happy birthday ! ''
The family-wives greet me .
I try to keep from falling .
They see my condition and rush to me .
Helping me to the sofa , they ask me what 's wrong .
I explain about Jana as they listen sympathetically .
`` I 've heard awful things about Highest Holy Grinder 's household , '' states Stacy .
`` Unfortunately , they 're all true , '' I assert .
The things I had seen in that household will be in my nightmares until the day I die .
Grinder terrorizes his wives .
There is no other way to put it .
He is either yelling at them , beating them , or thinking of ways to make their lives even more miserable .
His head-wife Cordelia is part of the abuse .
She , like Betsey when she was alive and in this house , gets a twisted satisfaction in seeing the other wives suffer .
`` Last week Highest Holy Grinder made his wives pray outside in the rainstorm , ' '' Lauren comments .
`` But it was coming down hard ! ''
Agatha chimes in .
`` It was thundering like crazy and the wind velocity was at least sixty miles per hour ! ''
`` He made them , except for Cordelia , get on their knees on the lawn and pray for the weather to clear up .
When it did n't , he beat them .
He blamed them for not having enough faith to stop the storm , '' Lauren states with horror in her voice .
`` I heard that Cordelia makes the other wives stand for hours in the hot sun every day with a bucket in each hand and praying every day , '' Bernice mentions , her face in a disgusted knot .
`` Stuff like that did n't happen when Highest Holy Bledsoe was alive , '' Stacy states , `` I mean things were still hard but he was n't a total fanatic like Highest Holy Grinder .
Highest Holy Grinder never said he was the son of the Great Master .
Never even insinuated it . ''
`` I 've got to admit something , '' Lauren says , her voice going down a few decibels as if afraid someone from outside our circle can listen to her .
`` I do n't think that Highest Holy Grinder is the son of the Great Master , '' she rushes .
A shocked silence ensues .
It took a lot of nerve for her to say what she did .
She could be executed for even thinking that Grinder is n't who he says he is .
We could be executed for listening to her .
`` I doubt if he 's related to the Great Master in any way , '' I state , wanting to give Lauren my support .
`` I 've had my doubts , '' Stacy mumbles .
The other wives now open up and agree with us .
How can someone so evil be the son of the Great Master ?
Ever since Bledsoe had died , Paradise Village got worse by the day .
Grinder seems to revel in thinking of ways to make our lives pure misery .
I want to completely open up and tell them exactly what I think of Paradise Village and the brainwashing we 're subjected to , but I do n't .
Only Miguel knows my deepest thoughts .
I realize that even though the wives are slowly waking up now that Master Barstowe has n't been here , there 's still a lot of garbage in their minds .
Total garbage that will take time to get rid of .
`` Maybe we 're supposed to follow Highest Holy Grinder , in spite of his crazy ideas , '' Agatha comments softly .
`` What do you mean ? ''
I ask .
`` Do you think this is a test from the Great Master to see how faithful we are ? ''
Agatha asks , consternation in her voice .
`` I really do n't think so , '' Stacy states .
`` I do n't think the Great Master wants us to be faithful to stuff that does n't make sense . ''
`` Why would the Great Master be happy with his faithful being treated so badly , '' asks Lauren .
I 'm thrilled that they 're questioning things .
This is how I prevent myself from being brainwashed .
I 've learned that manipulators do n't like questions .
They do n't like people to think for themselves .
Twisting ideas is their specialty .
`` Why would the Great Master give such reign to such horror ? ''
asks Bernice .
A knock on the door makes all of us jump out of our skin .
We are completely aware of the dangerous conversation we 've just been having .
Who 's here ?
I wonder .
Chapter Three '' You n-n-need me to f-f-fix something ? ''
Miguel stutters when Stacy opens the door .
The wave of relief is palpable around the room .
`` Come in , Miguelito , '' Stacy says .
`` I 'm glad you were allowed to come help us .
After stepping in , he sees me and smiles that bright smile of his .
I smile back .
His light-green eyes sparkle and black hair shines .
I 'm so glad to see him .
`` H-H-Hi , Monica . ''
`` Hi , '' I return .
`` Miguelito , we need you to fix the downstairs bathroom 's sink , '' Stacy tells him .
He nods and heads for the restroom .
I left the color the same ; it was always the same color as my dad’s hair , and I wanted to keep it , but it’s coming in softer and straighter .
Alan really wants to take me wig shopping , but for now I just want to see what it does .
And my eyes are finally healed enough to ditch the glasses , and adjusted enough that I can see clearly , so for the first time I’m really seeing myself in the mirror .
I tweaked my eye color away from brown , but I was purposely nonspecific .
They turn out to have a greenish hazel center , and a silvery blue corona .
But staring in the mirror , I’m not the man I thought I’d be .
Echoes of my former features still wash over my face , like my nose , still broader than my wanted , my lower lip still poutier than I’d pictured .
Some of it is probably swelling , and will go away , but… I maybe overestimated the amount of change I’d see .
I could have surgery , I suppose , but that feels like it would be too shallow ; like it’s one thing if a transgendered person gets breast implants , but it’s another if they opt for the double Ds ; it’s the difference between chasing perfection with a scalpel and just trying to be complete .
Maybe this face is just me , and maybe this is the me I should try to get comfortable with .
I guess time can tell on that .
And my mother called .
As soon as I answered , she hung up , but it’s the first time in a a long time that she 's called me .
So I decided to take a walk , just around the block .
Half of my consulting physicians would have conniptions if I told them , but I decided I could bundle up , and not let anyone breathe on me , and be relatively safe .
Outside , everything is different .
For the first time I feel I’m seeing a new world , with new eyes .
And I hope I’m not the only one who does .
Table of Contents Leaving Lost Atlantis Dear Jean , I’ve tried not to be bitter .
I haven’t always been successful .
But I held my tongue when you told me , in front of our daughters , that I was a failure and a fuck-up .
I gritted my teeth and bore your insults when you berated our sex life in front of my coworkers .
I bit through my lip when you told me you’d fallen in love with someone else ( and you took pains to tell me it was the first time you’d felt anything like love in a very long time ) .
So it’s with some pleasure , but only a modicum of bitterness that I’m writing to tell you you were wrong : I found Atlantis .
I know I’ve been missing for a while , and I’m sure you’re pissed as hell .
I wanted to write sooner , but I couldn’t .
And I feel bad about missing my support payments .
If you want , you can claim the life insurance policy I had through the school and my pension , too- just tell your lawyer I faced “imminent peril” and did not return ; I never got around to taking your name off them- to be honest , I didn’t have anyone else I’d have wanted the money to go to .
But it’s not like you ever needed your share of my pittance from the university ; your new “love” has more money than I’ll ever see .
Taking me to court for support , and for custody , after the divorce was settled- that was spite , and I don’t understand it , frankly .
You left me- what was there left to be spiteful over ?
I don’t want to be followed , but I’ll say it was in one of those old books I was chasing .
I lost the eBay auctions to collectors , but it turns out most true collectors are happy to let an expert give his opinions on occult artifacts .
Information from those pinged off things I’d already read , and I pieced things together and , well , I figured out where the island had been .
Now I don’t know what made me do it .
I’d had other leads before that came to nothing , and I still had money left on the grant from the university , I could have rented one of those new unmanned submersibles , really put on the Ritz , but somehow I knew that I couldn’t let the school know where I was , or what I was doing .
So I emptied my savings and chartered one of those little one-man subs .
It was cramped , and smelled like rotten fish inside it , but it got me under the sea .
The whole way down , in that stinking sub , I thought it stank because it leaked , and had probably killed its last inhabitants- that not only was I not going to find Atlantis , but I was going to drown like a fool .
I was doing my best to steel myself against impending failure , when I saw them : pillars on the sea floor .
The first few looked just like the ones at Stonehenge- obviously man-made , but otherwise sort of innocuous- too perfect to be naturally occurring , but showing no purposeful placement .
But as I drew closer , I could see they were covered in hieroglyphic markings , sort of a simplified Cyrillic alphabet .
The letters glowed blue , and there was a bright flash , and suddenly the pillar was covered in English characters , and they swirled together into a large message that read , “Hello .
Please disembark at left.” I guided the sub to a small empty space that seemed designed for accepting small vessels- the underwater equivalent of a port .
Via radio , the ship’s crew were adamant that I not leave the little sub , but I told them it was designed for this sort of thing .
I adjusted the gauges inside the sub , so the pressure slowly came down until it equalized with the water around us , then the sub began to fill with water .
In the meantime , I readied and checked my equipment .
It was going to be a strenuous dive , nearly 600 feet down , but nothing I hadn’t been through before ( of course , the last time I’d dived down to that depth I’d suffered from severe nitrogen narcosis and couldn’t remember anything that happened- though that’s far from atypical ) .
My sub was at the bottom of a low hill maybe ten meters tall- a good sign , I thought , since pressure lessens going up rather than down .
But I swam over the top of the hill , only to be confronted by a deep depression in the ocean floor .
I could see the same bluish glow as the pillars had given off , but not much more despite the lamp in my hand .
I continued down .
The depth gauge at my wrist read nearly 200 meters , but still I swum down .
I began to panic ; I hadn’t calculated a dive this deep , and soon my breathing gas mix would become a liability ; then a calm hit me , and I knew it would be all right .
I was meant to find this place- it all was happening for a reason ( I realize now this was just nitrogen narcosis , and its accompanying euphoria ) .
At 260 meters , or about 850 feet , I felt something brush my leg .
Then something struck me in the shoulder , or rather bumped into me at speed .
I spun around , trying to get my bearings , but the light barely penetrated the water .
I could make out a humanoid arm or leg swimming past , but at such a rate and speed there had to be dozens of them around me .
Suddenly , inside my head I heard a voice say , “Do not fight .
We will not harm you.” Of course , this was completely contradicted by the throbbing pain in my head that accompanied the message , so intense that I peed myself and passed out .
I awoke with holes beneath my jaw , and lungs full of salt water .
I wanted to struggle , but I’d been strapped to a table , and I think I was also sedated , because even when I moved , my muscles responded only weakly .
Raw panic gripped me , and I fought to keep myself from throwing up , when of their own accord , my lungs pushed the water up , then sucked another “breath” in , all through the new slits in my neck .
I was suddenly aware that there were two people in the room .
One of them was a woman , and looked every bit like a woman on the surface , aside from the fact that her hair splayed in a halo from her face , playing gently in the ocean currents .
She smiled , and said , “Welcome to Atlantis , ” though this time her voice in my head was gentler .
“You should not have tried to swim to us .
You nearly died , and we were already on the way to get you.” She was an ambassador of sorts .
She told me that when the sub’s parent vessel couldn’t raise me on the radio , they’d remotely recalled the sub and left .
I found that she could hear thoughts I wanted her to ( though I had to work a little to restrain certain thoughts- I accidentally told her she was cute ) .
I still haven’t learned enough about them to know if it’s a naturally evolved telepathy or some kind of technology they haven’t explained to me yet , but it seems both passive and intelligent ; they don’t have to concentrate , and at the same time they only broadcast what they want known .
But the reason I’m missing , and the reason I couldn’t write , is Atlantis has rules about contact with the outside world .
They let me in , but I couldn’t leave , couldn’t write .
I had to appeal directly to their ruler to have an exception made .
But after poring through their histories , I can understand their shyness .
The legend according to Plato is that Atlantis unsuccessfully attacked Athens , and then sank into the sea .
The truth is different .
The Atlanteans were thousands of years beyond Athens ; they were working on rocketry , for God’s sake .
But they were also a peaceful city-state ; in Latin over the city gate is the inscription , “the just do no harm.” It was the Athenians who sought conquest , despite their disadvantage .
Rather than be party to a slaughter ( and likely , due to the allure of their vast wealth and technology , many slaughters yet to come ) , the Atlanteans decided to hide their island nation in the single place it would impossible for war to find it : beneath the sea .
Their technology was decades beyond ours , even now ; I’ve looked at schematics for gigantic machinery that I can scarcely fathom , but suffice to say they accomplished the impossible .
Of course , the Athenians were the “victors” according to history , so they wrote the books , and Atlantis became the defeated aggressor .
I suspect that Plato , like Galileo after him , ran afoul of the ruling class of his day , and rather than a premature ending , decided to slightly alter the wording of his philosophical treatise , without altering its meaning .
That history has lost its original context is unfortunate , but such a thing rarely survives the trials of time .
Atlantis always hoped a day might come when mankind would soften enough for them to return to the surface .
It really pains these people to have science that could virtually end hunger and disease , but be unable to share it because our species would just find a way to engineer it into a superior method of murder .
By their count , we’re nearly as backward today as the Athenians were thousands of years ago .
Their philosopher-king in the Platonic ( or perhaps it was Socratic ) mold is largely an executive- imposing the will of the people , rather than his own edicts .
Their republic is far more directed , and is focused around weekly community meetings where direct votes are tallied .
I mean , it’s honest to God democracy- no oligarchy of any kind .
They’ve harnessed thermal vents for electricity that provides for all of their power , and the architecture is , there aren’t words , really .
The city is capped by a rocky-looking dome that keeps the city hidden from anyone who might look to scan it from the surface , but built into its crags are these giant , vibrant buildings that claw and scrape at the “skyline” in an architectural style that feels like it 's influenced by Egypt , only if ancient Egypt were the dominant culture in the 24th century .
Beneath the dome everything is lit by a brilliant blue glow .
It’s all so beautiful , so perfect .
I remember college , and we spent nights staring up at the stars , talking about how wonderful seeing those ancient , fabled societies would be .
I only ever wanted to share them with you ; and when our marriage started to have trouble , I just buckled down , because I thought if anything could fix us , if anything could give us back that fire we had , it was sharing something like this .
But we can’t .
Because you left me .
And married someone else .
But facts were facts , and the numbers were screaming X all the way .
“We can’t close our eyes to this , ” he said .
“Okay , I will give a warning of ‘possible disruption , monitoring closely , ’” Katherine said .
“That should keep us covered until we can crunch all the corn flakes.” She issued the alert to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , the Federal Aviation Administration , the Federal Communications Commission , and the departments of Defense and Homeland Security .
Katherine rated the threat a G3 , a strong geomagnetic storm as measured on a scale of one to five .
She logged the data and noted the time , saying to Chien , “Your shift is up .
You better go play Romeo.” “No way , ” he said .
“The solar cycle doesn’t peak again for 11 years , and I’m not getting any younger.” “Your call .
But take my word for it .
When you get to be my age , you wish you’d had more dates with people and fewer dates with computers.” The solar plume on the screen had grown to epic proportions , so much so that Chien had to zoom out on the imagery just to fit it on the screen .
Even for a trained scientist , it was difficult to equate what looked like a bit of Hollywood illusion with billions of tons of solar material hurtling toward the Earth at two million miles an hour .
Even if the plume proved truly dangerous , the solar wind and its charged particles wouldn’t reach Earth for at least a day , maybe two .
“Something’s got me worried , ” Chien said .
“The SDO has only been operating for four years , and in that time we’ve had no major solar storms.” “So ? ” Katherine had apparently already swallowed her own downplaying of the threat and accepted mild space disturbance as fait accompli .
“The SDO is itself a satellite .
With a vicious enough solar wind , we’d lose uplinks and downlinks , as well as orientation .
Worst-case scenario , we won’t be able to track the effect.” “Well , let’s just pray it’s not a worst case , then , ” Katherine said , with a wry smile .
Religious references were rare in the space center .
Chien , a Taoist , was not amused , nor was he comforted .
CHAPTER TWO “It’s a bird , ” the girl , Madison , said .
“I see that , ” Rachel Wheeler said .
“It’s pretty .
Why don’t we put it in the sky ? ” Madison had snipped the misshapen bird from a sheet of black construction paper .
It was part of a collage , a series of different shapes held in place with paste .
The bottom was a strip of green paper and the sky was a strip of blue paper .
There was a square for the house , and a block with wheels that represented Daddy’s truck .
The forked brown tree was topped with a clump of green for leaves , and three scallop-edged dots of white were drifting clouds .
The biggest object in the collage was a wobbly orange oval , a sun that projected brightness and cheer .
But Rachel’s main interest was the hidden interior of the house .
“Right here ? ” Madison said , setting the bird in the tree .
Tree .
Perhaps she sees security there , maybe a nest .
“Wherever you want , ” Rachel said .
“There , ” Madison insisted .
“Okay , let’s put the paste on the back so it will stick.” Paste had not changed much from Rachel’s own grade-school days , and she helped Madison dab it on with big , greasy strokes using a wooden Popsicle stick .
Madison stamped the bird into place and frowned .
“Maybe it should fly away.” “How come ? ” “So it won’t hear what’s happening in the house.” “Would the bird be afraid ? ” Rachel kept her voice level , suppressing any eagerness .
She was painfully aware of Do-Gooder Syndrome and those who wanted to help no matter the cost .
Madison shook her head , swishing fine blonde hair across her thin shoulders .
“No , because the bird can fly away.” “Do you sometimes wish you could fly ? ” “Yeah , because Daddy won’t let me ride the school bus and then I could come to school.” Madison had repeated the second grade because she’d missed twenty-seven days in the last school year .
Despite the intervention of the Mecklenburg County Department of Social Services , Madison’s father didn’t feel compelled to follow the law .
Her mother was serving three years in prison for the manufacture , sale , and delivery of methamphetamine .
Because the county had little funding for child services , Madison would remain in her father’s custody unless he committed some unforgiveable atrocity on the order of molestation or murder .
The “welfare state” was just one of the many oxymoronic catch phrases Rachel had encountered as a school counselor .
“What if we put a window on the house ? ” Rachel said , edging a little more deeply into her inquisition .
“Daddy says windows are for nosy people .
Says you better keep the curtains closed.” “But then you can’t see the sunshine .
It’s dark all the time.” Madison shrugged .
“Not if you turn on the TV.” Hard to argue with that one .
Rachel glanced at the clock .
It was almost two , and Madison was her last client of the day .
She hated that word “client , ” but “student” wasn’t exactly accurate , either , since she didn’t really teach .
Rachel had finished her two-year Masters program and was currently conducting an internship at Greenwood Academy .
The charter school was in a renovated warehouse on Charlotte’s rundown east side , a politically popular nod to school choice that had the ulterior motive of moving education costs from the tax coffers to parents .
Mrs. Federov , the dour and scrawny principal , had approved Rachel’s internship with the condition that no parents would be involved .
Rachel was free to meet with students individually , but she wasn’t allowed to probe into anything besides school and peer subjects—as if home life had no role in academic performance and character education .
Rachel was under no illusions that she was here to save the world .
She was here to save herself .
Most notably from guilt over Chelsea , her little sister .
Madison wasn’t the only one who knew about loss .
“We don’t have TV at school , ” Rachel said .
“We have a ’puter , ” Madison said .
“Yes , we do have computers.” Rachel didn’t have an office , instead meeting with her clients in a supply room .
That was handy for paper cut-outs , but not for technology .
The media center had a bank of computers , but the one in Mrs. Federov’s office was the best in the school .
Of course , it was Mrs. Federov’s personal property .
Which made using it even more fun , because it was off limits .
Rachel checked the hall , closed the supply-room door , and opened the side door that led to Mrs. Federov’s office .
Mrs. Federov had a polished walnut desk that must have cost the nonprofit school association a thousand dollars .
On it sat a MacBook , gleaming white like a futuristic relic .
Madison pressed behind her , eager to enter .
“On one condition , ” Rachel said .
“Not to tell ? ” The kid is sharp .
But then , aren’t they all , until grown-ups grind off all their edges ?
“I wouldn’t want you to lie .
If a grownup asks , always tell the truth.” Madison nodded , her brown eyes solemn .
“What condition , then ? ” “Can you tell me what’s inside the house ? ” Madison’s brow furrowed as if she had already forgotten the collage .
“House ? ” “The one without a window.” “Oh .
Is this one of those times when I have to tell the truth ? ” “I won’t tell anyone else .
There’s a difference between a lie and a secret .
And this would be our secret .
Just like the computer.” Madison looked longingly past Rachel to the computer .
“Okay then .
Daddy’s asleep on the couch .
Drinking beer .
He has a gun.” A lovely combination .
She could picture him , his shirt unbuttoned and hairy belly bulging , a platoon of empty bottles on the floor around the couch .
The gun was a disturbing addition to the scene .
Great .
Now I don’t just have to worry about him showing up in the principal’s office , I have to worry about him gunning down fifty innocent kids .
“Does he say anything about the gun ? ” she asked .
Madison shook her head .
“Just said the gum…the gub…the guvment…is not taking his.” Her father actually didn’t sound all that much different than many other Charlotte residents .
The South was a conservative stronghold , despite the liberal university communities in North Carolina .
The Mecklenburg school board was having a serious debate over whether to allow teachers to carry concealed weapons .
Rachel wondered how long it would be before bulletproof vests were a classroom requirement .
“Okay , ” Rachel said .
“Let’s play some Dora the Explorer.” When Rachel booted up the MacBook , it was already set to Mrs. Federov’s Yahoo !
page .
Rachel had no interest in the woman’s private habits , but she did notice an orange ball of fire in the news thumbnails .
Sheriff Wilson had to laugh at the general sleaziness of life in Lancaster .
It was lucky for the few residents of this small tourist town that the local color was still a good draw for vacationing families .
The city council had made up tourist brochures asking the vacationing families to give the Amish the respect of not bothering them with questions .
Rather , their brochures told them to try not to stare nor to discuss these Amish citizens right in front of them , but to give them a bit of privacy and to discuss their observations of this strange group of people only from a respectful distance where their conversations could n't be heard .
The tourists kept a kind distance and tried to take pictures without using flash bulbs as their tourist brochures instructed them .
All in all , the stand off was fairly good for all concerned , for it gave the tourists a chance to watch and to give the Amish just enough distance to keep them coming to the town without which the tourist trade would cease .
CHAPTER TWO I Do n't Feel Good Ruth Schwartz had been living in New York City with her Lancaster County friends .
She was `` running wild '' as the Amish say , feeling her youthful Amish oats .
Like other Amish young people , Ruth had been intimately discovering how the non-Amish world lived .
A few days before , she had slept with a nice boy she had met at a party .
His name was Ricky Schmalz .
Ricky asked her to his crash pad , and she had gone with him .
After awhile , they had sex .
It was her first sexual encounter and the best wilding experience she 'd ever had .
Now , she wanted more .
The only trouble was that somewhere between her partying and her innocent little sin with Ricky Schmalz , she had caught a cold .
It was an unfair bummer for Ruth who wanted to discover more young men in the very near future , because she liked what she and Ricky had done in Rick 's bachelor pad and wanted a lot more .
Her cold had put her dreams in that regard on delay .
For several days , her mind was foggy .
She found getting out of her bed painful .
Her joints ached .
She had a fever .
Her sweat that night had caused her to soak her sheets .
Droplets of feverish sweat still beaded across her forehead .
They created little streams of salt water that traveled with the wantonness of general nonchalance into her eyes .
Ruth did n't like her persistent squinting caused by the salt 's discomfort .
In addition , Rick had bitten her twice and drawn blood , causing her to scream .
He said he did n't understand why he had done that and had apologized .
Her eyes seemed strange as well , and she had a sudden desire to eat her meals half-baked which was not like her .
The taste of munching on uncooked meat suddenly seemed to have a sudden appeal to her .
She even found herself thawing hamburger in the microwave and eating it while it was totally red .
In fact , she had suddenly discovered that raw meat was actually one of the most delicious foods she had ever eaten .
She wondered to herself just why had n't she known this desire for redness in meats all along ?
Why had this sudden new culinary discovery appeared ?
She figured it was because she was sick .
Ruth wanted to meet her new boyfriend , but he was n't answering her phone calls .
She figured correctly that he was as sick as she was .
Maybe , she thought , he might need someone to talk to or to bring him some meals .
She was bored in her apartment .
So , as tired as she was , she craved stimulation .
Her friends always said sex was good for a fever .
Maybe she needed to check that out .
She called a taxi .
# As Ruth Schwarz approached Rick Schmalz’s apartment door , she noticed that her body seemed to be operating a bit erratically .
She was stumbling .
She had to struggle just to walk across the street , because the fever had caused Ruth to lose control of herself .
It was not like her to be this way .
Ruth was not really with it at all today .
The Amish girl figured it was another symptom of her fever .
She wondered if Rick was having the same problem .
Her arms reached out in front of her in a rather strange way , almost like a Hollywood zombie , and her thoughts were foggy at best .
She knocked , but no one answered .
So , she tried the door knob .
It was unlocked .
`` Ricky ? ''
she called .
Still there was no answer .
She opened the door and stepped in .
Ricky was not there , so she went inside to see if her youthful and very handsome paramour was in another room .
She tried his bedroom .
Sure enough .
There he was , sleeping .
She got on his bed and leaned down against his side and kissed him .
His face seemed odd at best .
His flesh was cold .
He stirred .
But it was only slightly .
`` Rick ? ''
she asked .
Again , Rick did not answer her .
`` Are you all right , Rick ? ''
Ruth thought that Rick moved a bit , but she could n't be sure .
She looked at his arms , and noticed what looked like bed sores here and there .
That was new .
She had n't noticed that the night they made love .
Curious , she checked herself for sores .
Yes , there were similar sores on her arms and neck .
`` What the heck is happening to us ? ''
she wondered .
`` Rick ? ''
Rick sat up .
His hands lunged for Ruth 's throat .
He was growling , and , as his eyes opened , she noticed how his whites were golden and his irises were suddenly bright red , almost like those of a mountain wild cat .
Was she imagining things or was he changed in some way ?
She knew that an illness could be a sensitive thing that could easily affect the eyes and minds of its victims .
Ruth had seen that happen with Amish patients whom she had cared for as a hospital aide when their temperatures passed one hundred and two degrees .
Rick grabbed at her .
She felt his hands closing around her throat , choking off her airway .
He bit her shoulder and tore out a chunk of her flesh .
He was growling .
`` Rick ?
You 're hurting me , Ricky .
Stop it ! ''
She pushed Rick 's hands away .
Were they claws ?
Things had suddenly gone wrong .
Her boy friend leaned forward , grabbed Ruth 's arm and bit hard , breaking her skin .
Rick 's teeth ripped out some of Ruth 's muscle , drawing even more blood than he had done before .
What the heck was going on ?
Sheriff Wilson had to laugh at the general sleaziness of life in Lancaster .
It was lucky for the few residents of this small tourist town that the local color was still a good draw for vacationing families .
The city council had made up tourist brochures asking the vacationing families to give the Amish the respect of not bothering them with questions .
Rather , their brochures told them to try not to stare nor to discuss these Amish citizens right in front of them , but to give them a bit of privacy and to discuss their observations of this strange group of people only from a respectful distance where their conversations could n't be heard .
The tourists kept a kind distance and tried to take pictures without using flash bulbs as their tourist brochures instructed them .
All in all , the stand off was fairly good for all concerned , for it gave the tourists a chance to watch and to give the Amish just enough distance to keep them coming to the town without which the tourist trade would cease .
CHAPTER TWO I Do n't Feel Good Ruth Schwartz had been living in New York City with her Lancaster County friends .
She was `` running wild '' as the Amish say , feeling her youthful Amish oats .
Like other Amish young people , Ruth had been intimately discovering how the non-Amish world lived .
A few days before , she had slept with a nice boy she had met at a party .
His name was Ricky Schmalz .
Ricky asked her to his crash pad , and she had gone with him .
After awhile , they had sex .
It was her first sexual encounter and the best wilding experience she 'd ever had .
Now , she wanted more .
The only trouble was that somewhere between her partying and her innocent little sin with Ricky Schmalz , she had caught a cold .
It was an unfair bummer for Ruth who wanted to discover more young men in the very near future , because she liked what she and Ricky had done in Rick 's bachelor pad and wanted a lot more .
Her cold had put her dreams in that regard on delay .
For several days , her mind was foggy .
She found getting out of her bed painful .
Her joints ached .
She had a fever .
Her sweat that night had caused her to soak her sheets .
Droplets of feverish sweat still beaded across her forehead .
They created little streams of salt water that traveled with the wantonness of general nonchalance into her eyes .
Ruth did n't like her persistent squinting caused by the salt 's discomfort .
In addition , Rick had bitten her twice and drawn blood , causing her to scream .
He said he did n't understand why he had done that and had apologized .
Her eyes seemed strange as well , and she had a sudden desire to eat her meals half-baked which was not like her .
The taste of munching on uncooked meat suddenly seemed to have a sudden appeal to her .
She even found herself thawing hamburger in the microwave and eating it while it was totally red .
In fact , she had suddenly discovered that raw meat was actually one of the most delicious foods she had ever eaten .
She wondered to herself just why had n't she known this desire for redness in meats all along ?
Why had this sudden new culinary discovery appeared ?
She figured it was because she was sick .
Ruth wanted to meet her new boyfriend , but he was n't answering her phone calls .
She figured correctly that he was as sick as she was .
Maybe , she thought , he might need someone to talk to or to bring him some meals .
She was bored in her apartment .
So , as tired as she was , she craved stimulation .
Her friends always said sex was good for a fever .
Maybe she needed to check that out .
She called a taxi .
# As Ruth Schwarz approached Rick Schmalz’s apartment door , she noticed that her body seemed to be operating a bit erratically .
She was stumbling .
She had to struggle just to walk across the street , because the fever had caused Ruth to lose control of herself .
It was not like her to be this way .
Ruth was not really with it at all today .
The Amish girl figured it was another symptom of her fever .
She wondered if Rick was having the same problem .
Her arms reached out in front of her in a rather strange way , almost like a Hollywood zombie , and her thoughts were foggy at best .
She knocked , but no one answered .
So , she tried the door knob .
It was unlocked .
`` Ricky ? ''
she called .
Still there was no answer .
She opened the door and stepped in .
Ricky was not there , so she went inside to see if her youthful and very handsome paramour was in another room .
She tried his bedroom .
Sure enough .
There he was , sleeping .
She got on his bed and leaned down against his side and kissed him .
His face seemed odd at best .
His flesh was cold .
He stirred .
But it was only slightly .
`` Rick ? ''
she asked .
Again , Rick did not answer her .
`` Are you all right , Rick ? ''
Ruth thought that Rick moved a bit , but she could n't be sure .
She looked at his arms , and noticed what looked like bed sores here and there .
That was new .
She had n't noticed that the night they made love .
Curious , she checked herself for sores .
Yes , there were similar sores on her arms and neck .
`` What the heck is happening to us ? ''
she wondered .
`` Rick ? ''
Rick sat up .
His hands lunged for Ruth 's throat .
He was growling , and , as his eyes opened , she noticed how his whites were golden and his irises were suddenly bright red , almost like those of a mountain wild cat .
Was she imagining things or was he changed in some way ?
She knew that an illness could be a sensitive thing that could easily affect the eyes and minds of its victims .
Ruth had seen that happen with Amish patients whom she had cared for as a hospital aide when their temperatures passed one hundred and two degrees .
Rick grabbed at her .
She felt his hands closing around her throat , choking off her airway .
He bit her shoulder and tore out a chunk of her flesh .
He was growling .
`` Rick ?
You 're hurting me , Ricky .
Stop it ! ''
She pushed Rick 's hands away .
Were they claws ?
Things had suddenly gone wrong .
Her boy friend leaned forward , grabbed Ruth 's arm and bit hard , breaking her skin .
Rick 's teeth ripped out some of Ruth 's muscle , drawing even more blood than he had done before .
What the heck was going on ?
Sheriff Wilson had to laugh at the general sleaziness of life in Lancaster .
It was lucky for the few residents of this small tourist town that the local color was still a good draw for vacationing families .
The city council had made up tourist brochures asking the vacationing families to give the Amish the respect of not bothering them with questions .
Rather , their brochures told them to try not to stare nor to discuss these Amish citizens right in front of them , but to give them a bit of privacy and to discuss their observations of this strange group of people only from a respectful distance where their conversations could n't be heard .
The tourists kept a kind distance and tried to take pictures without using flash bulbs as their tourist brochures instructed them .
All in all , the stand off was fairly good for all concerned , for it gave the tourists a chance to watch and to give the Amish just enough distance to keep them coming to the town without which the tourist trade would cease .
CHAPTER TWO I Do n't Feel Good Ruth Schwartz had been living in New York City with her Lancaster County friends .
She was `` running wild '' as the Amish say , feeling her youthful Amish oats .
Like other Amish young people , Ruth had been intimately discovering how the non-Amish world lived .
A few days before , she had slept with a nice boy she had met at a party .
His name was Ricky Schmalz .
Ricky asked her to his crash pad , and she had gone with him .
After awhile , they had sex .
It was her first sexual encounter and the best wilding experience she 'd ever had .
Now , she wanted more .
The only trouble was that somewhere between her partying and her innocent little sin with Ricky Schmalz , she had caught a cold .
It was an unfair bummer for Ruth who wanted to discover more young men in the very near future , because she liked what she and Ricky had done in Rick 's bachelor pad and wanted a lot more .
Her cold had put her dreams in that regard on delay .
For several days , her mind was foggy .
She found getting out of her bed painful .
Her joints ached .
She had a fever .
Her sweat that night had caused her to soak her sheets .
Droplets of feverish sweat still beaded across her forehead .
They created little streams of salt water that traveled with the wantonness of general nonchalance into her eyes .
Ruth did n't like her persistent squinting caused by the salt 's discomfort .
In addition , Rick had bitten her twice and drawn blood , causing her to scream .
He said he did n't understand why he had done that and had apologized .
Her eyes seemed strange as well , and she had a sudden desire to eat her meals half-baked which was not like her .
The taste of munching on uncooked meat suddenly seemed to have a sudden appeal to her .
She even found herself thawing hamburger in the microwave and eating it while it was totally red .
In fact , she had suddenly discovered that raw meat was actually one of the most delicious foods she had ever eaten .
She wondered to herself just why had n't she known this desire for redness in meats all along ?
Why had this sudden new culinary discovery appeared ?
She figured it was because she was sick .
Ruth wanted to meet her new boyfriend , but he was n't answering her phone calls .
She figured correctly that he was as sick as she was .
Maybe , she thought , he might need someone to talk to or to bring him some meals .
She was bored in her apartment .
So , as tired as she was , she craved stimulation .
Her friends always said sex was good for a fever .
Maybe she needed to check that out .
She called a taxi .
# As Ruth Schwarz approached Rick Schmalz’s apartment door , she noticed that her body seemed to be operating a bit erratically .
She was stumbling .
She had to struggle just to walk across the street , because the fever had caused Ruth to lose control of herself .
It was not like her to be this way .
Ruth was not really with it at all today .
The Amish girl figured it was another symptom of her fever .
She wondered if Rick was having the same problem .
Her arms reached out in front of her in a rather strange way , almost like a Hollywood zombie , and her thoughts were foggy at best .
She knocked , but no one answered .
So , she tried the door knob .
It was unlocked .
`` Ricky ? ''
she called .
Still there was no answer .
She opened the door and stepped in .
Ricky was not there , so she went inside to see if her youthful and very handsome paramour was in another room .
She tried his bedroom .
Sure enough .
There he was , sleeping .
She got on his bed and leaned down against his side and kissed him .
His face seemed odd at best .
His flesh was cold .
He stirred .
But it was only slightly .
`` Rick ? ''
she asked .
Again , Rick did not answer her .
`` Are you all right , Rick ? ''
Ruth thought that Rick moved a bit , but she could n't be sure .
She looked at his arms , and noticed what looked like bed sores here and there .
That was new .
She had n't noticed that the night they made love .
Curious , she checked herself for sores .
Yes , there were similar sores on her arms and neck .
`` What the heck is happening to us ? ''
she wondered .
`` Rick ? ''
Rick sat up .
His hands lunged for Ruth 's throat .
He was growling , and , as his eyes opened , she noticed how his whites were golden and his irises were suddenly bright red , almost like those of a mountain wild cat .
Was she imagining things or was he changed in some way ?
She knew that an illness could be a sensitive thing that could easily affect the eyes and minds of its victims .
Ruth had seen that happen with Amish patients whom she had cared for as a hospital aide when their temperatures passed one hundred and two degrees .
Rick grabbed at her .
She felt his hands closing around her throat , choking off her airway .
He bit her shoulder and tore out a chunk of her flesh .
He was growling .
`` Rick ?
You 're hurting me , Ricky .
Stop it ! ''
She pushed Rick 's hands away .
Were they claws ?
Things had suddenly gone wrong .
Her boy friend leaned forward , grabbed Ruth 's arm and bit hard , breaking her skin .
Rick 's teeth ripped out some of Ruth 's muscle , drawing even more blood than he had done before .
What the heck was going on ?
Then we reach the end of the road .
We reach God .
I stare at Him , gaping , in awe , struggling to find my voice .
Finally I do .
I fall to my knees before Him , confessing that there’s been some mistake .
I tell Him that I’m not meant to be here .
That I’m an animal .
God smiles at me .
The most radiant smile I’ve ever seen .
He speaks .
I’m exactly where I was meant to be , He says .
I tell Him that I don’t understand .
That I’m a monster .
He shakes His head and says , “Didn’t anyone ever tell you , my son ?
I made you in my image .
I made you just like me.” That’s when I see what’s in His hand .
I try to turn .
Try to run , but before I can move I feel their hands , the hands of everyone I ever killed catching me .
Holding me still as God approaches .
The first time , that was the end of the dream .
Lately , though , it’s begun to stretch out .
Sometimes I can feel that thing pressed against my flesh .
Sometimes .
sometimes I can smell God’s breath , thick and heavy around me .
Sometimes I can hear them laughing .
That’s when I wake up , screaming .
I can see I’ve disturbed you .
I apologize .
If anything , I’d hoped it would be a comfort .
The next few hours will not be pleasant for you , and I wanted you to know that you will get some small measure of revenge .
If only in my dreams .
*** Return to Table of Contents Vespine Michelle was humming a tuneless song as she exited her apartment .
I stopped breathing for a moment as I watched her through the peephole in my apartment .
She was stunning .
Her hair , cut at shoulder length , was the color of daffodils .
Her skin was tanned , but the thin pale lines on her shoulders spoke of a natural tan , not the kind bought at a salon .
Her clothes were not immodest , but they didn’t hide her perfect body .
The only jewelry she wore were metallic earrings , dark blue , verging on black , and a similarly colored bracelet .
The most intoxicating thing about her , however , was the way she moved .
She had a kind of elegance , a kind of perfection , that few people can aspire to .
She seemed to float down the hallway .
I held myself back from opening the door and following her to the stairs .
As desperately as I wanted to talk to her , to touch her , I couldn’t .
Not yet .
I’d been overeager before .
I’d moved too fast , I’d scared them away .
It had taken time for me to learn patience .
Time and a few bad experiences .
I waited until her footsteps faded away , then closed my eyes and counted to fifty before I opened the door .
It had taken me a while to map out her weekly routine .
Months , actually .
Not because she was particularly elusive -- if anything , she was easier to follow than most women -- but there was a limit to how long you could watch someone before they noticed you .
There was a distinct limit to how many days in a row you could watch someone without them noticing .
If you wanted to stretch that out , you had to get creative .
You had to change your clothes , your hair , your style .
I got some funny looks at work , coming in every couple of days with a whole new look , but I wasn’t trying to impress them .
Who cares what a bunch of minimum wage losers think ?
At the bottom of the stairs I peeked out the front window .
Michelle was waiting at the bus stop .
She was always early for her bus , which was always late .
I slipped out the front door and headed down the street .
I ducked my head and trudged slowly up the street , slouching , with both hands in my pockets .
At the first intersection , I turned right and picked up my pace .
One of the best ways to keep someone from realizing you were following them was to be wherever they were going before they got there .
Getting there was the only problem .
Traveling five miles on foot wasn’t fast enough , and taking a taxi got expensive .
I’d gotten lucky , though .
I’d found a bike someone hadn’t bothered to lock up , and I found a place to stash it .
I could cover the distance from the apartment to her work with time to spare .
A little bit of effort , and a few shortcuts , and I found myself on a park bench facing Michelle’s flower shop about five minutes before she arrived .
Technically , the shop belonged to an old Brazilian man , but to me it was Michelle’s shop .
She moved between the flowers , beautiful , captivating , perfect .
She smiled at all of her customers , flirting with the regulars , making arrangements , taking calls .
I watched her every motion .
The trick to watching for that long without drawing attention is having a good secondary activity .
I’ve tried a few things .
Newspapers and books work pretty well , but I prefer feeding the birds .
For one thing , not many people read with sunglasses on , and without sunglasses , people can tell when you’re looking at them .
For another , trying to look like you’re reading involves turning pages at regular intervals , which means paying less attention to the person you’re watching than I like .
But while feeding the birds is good cover , it isn’t perfect .
You have to watch your time .
If you stay in the same place for more than a couple of hours , you run the risk of being noticed .
I waited until about ten thirty , when Michelle took advantage of the lull in sales to begin her daily culling of old flowers .
It was the time of day when she was most likely to look out the window and notice me , so I headed down the street to a small clothing resale shop , which bought clothes for pennies , and sold them for dimes .
The quality wasn’t very high , but all I needed was to change enough of my appearance that nobody would connect me to the man who’d spent his morning feeding birds in the park .
I bought a crummy jacket and a ball cap .
Then I headed to a sandwich shop just around the corner .
Most of their sandwiches were overpriced , but the owner had a lunch special that fit my budget .
After that it was back to the park .
This time I took a spot near the playground .
I avoided the benches immediately surrounding the playground .
Mothers and nannies claimed those and were wary of anyone who seemed out of place .
A picnic table nearby sufficed , as it left me far enough away that the women with children felt comfortable ignoring me but was close enough that I wouldn’t stand out of the crowd if Michelle happened to look my way .
Being a bit farther away , and in a deeper shadow , thanks to the brighter sunlight , I was comfortable taking my sunglasses off and pretending to read a small novel I’d brought with me .
Michelle was talking to a customer .
A young man .
He was attractive .
Not as attractive as Michelle , but who was ?
She had used that spot before as a secret hideout for when she wanted to be alone , and had previously hidden a cache of candy bars and a couple of bottles of water .
The only thing she would miss was a toilet .
Still , she never thought it would save her life .
I wonder if all this was meant to be , like destiny or the Hand of God .
Only time would tell , and only then would she know if she was meant to succeed or fail .
Mr. Mistoffelees followed her in and lay down beside her .
Picking him up , she cuddled him in her lap , and he closed his eyes and began to purr .
She thought back to when she first met him , seven years before , when he was a wee kitten , and she not much more mature ... . Differel skipped down the steps of the terrace onto the patio .
She was so excited she felt she would burst .
Aunt Mandy was taking her on a picnic lunch to the woods , and she had promised to show her some Faeries .
She had never seen Faeries before , except in her fairytale books , and the adult books Mandy had shown her .
The text was difficult to read , full of long , unfamiliar , barely pronounceable words , but the pictures were very pretty .
She wondered if the real Faeries would have no clothes on either , and she giggled at the thought .
Mandy had to talk to her father first , and she told her to wait in the garden .
Ever since her last birthday , when she turned five , Mandy had allowed her to play there unsupervised .
She had told her she was a big girl , so she could look after herself , but that she also had respon -- , responsi -- ... what was that word ?
Re-spon-si-bil-i-ties ; that was it .
That meant there were certain things she had to do , and certain things she could n't do , and it was up to her to follow the rules .
She felt proud that Mandy trusted her , like an adult ; Aelfraed and Mrs. Widget still treated her like a baby , and even her father thought of her as a little girl .
One of the rules was to stay away from the fountain unless an adult was with her .
She understood why , too : if while playing she slipped and fell in , she could crack her head on the bottom and drown .
She thought it was a silly rule .
She knew the danger and how to be careful , but Mandy had explained that if she became excited she might forget , so until she proved she would n't , she had to obey .
Still , she figured it was okay to get close , as long as she was n't close enough to fall in .
As she approached it , though , she noticed something strange .
One of the stable cats was pacing frantically back and forth along the rim , looking down into the bowl .
Occasionally it would stop and bend down inside , as if it would jump in , but then straightened itself again and resumed pacing .
Curious , she wanted to see what it was looking at .
There were no fish in the fountain ; maybe there was a leaf or some other piece of flotsam .
But she could n't break the rule .
She felt torn between her strong desire and her responsibility , and she realized what Mandy meant about proving herself .
If she could control herself and obey the rules even when she really wanted to do something that seemed fun , then she would have shown that she could be trusted to look after herself .
As she watched , she began to hear a weak , thin cry , like a small animal .
Maybe something had fallen in !
A mouse , perhaps , or a small bird .
That would explain the cat 's excitement .
Unable to stand it any longer , she sprinted up to the fountain .
The cat heard her and turned around to face her .
It crouched , flattened its ears , and bristled its tail as it moaned at her .
Stable cats were not very friendly , but it did not run away as most did .
She was disappointed none were friendly enough to let her play with them .
She really wanted a pet , but it was one of the few things her father refused to talk about .
She slowed and approached the rim carefully .
The cat backed away , but did not try to leave .
The rim came up to her chest , so she was able to look over it and down inside .
What she saw was a small black and white kitten , floundering in the water , as it struggled vainly to find a way to crawl out .
She understood it must have been doing what Mandy warned her about , playing on the rim , when it slipped and fell in .
It cried out as it scrabbled at the smooth stone , as if calling for help .
She realized the adult cat must be its mother .
It was growing weak and having a hard time keeping its head above the water .
She reached over the rim to grab it , but her arms were n't long enough .
She had to get up on the rim to retrieve it .
That meant she might fall in herself , but she felt she had to risk it .
She could n't just watch the poor thing drown , she had to try .
She pushed up on the rim with her hands as she jumped , and she got her waist over the top .
She kicked her legs up and over , and sat up , straddling the rim .
She realized how stable that was , that as long as she did n't lean too far , she would n't lose her balance .
The leg dangling on the inside was close enough to the water for her foot to just brush the surface , and the kitten caught the straps of her shoe and hung on .
She reached down , holding on to the rim with the other hand , and grasped the kitten under its belly .
It tried to cling to the sock , but she was able to pull it free and lift it out of the water , and then she took hold of it with both hands .
She swung her leg over the rim and sat with both limbs dangling over the ground before she hopped off .
She placed the kitten on the patio as it mewed in a frantic tone , and then stepped back .
Immediately the mother jumped down , nuzzled her baby , and began to lick it .
Differel felt a warm glow of satisfied pride at her accomplishment , and happiness that the kitten was safe .
`` You should keep a better eye on your baby , '' she scolded the mother cat .
It looked at her with a half-lidded expression , as if telling her to mind her own business , and then it picked up the kitten by the scruff of the neck , turned , and trotted off .
`` Differel ! ''
She turned and saw Mandy running towards her .
She must have seen her from one of the windows .
She had an anxious look , like she was afraid , but she looked upset as well .
She realized she was probably in trouble , but for once she felt calm instead of afraid .
She knew what she did was right , even if she was punished for it .
When Mandy reached her , she knelt down and grasped her by the shoulders .
`` Differe , honey , are you okay ? ''
`` Yes , Auntie , I 'm fine . ''
She gripped her shoulders hard .
`` I thought I told you never to play on the fountain ! ''
`` You did , but I was n't playing . ''
`` Oh ?
And pray tell , what were you doing ? ''
`` A kitten had fallen in , and I was rescuing it . ''
At first , Mandy showed her an astonished expression , but then it turned irritated , even disappointed .
`` What have I told you about lying ? ''
`` I 'm not lying !
There really was a kitten . ''
`` Differel !
What have I said ? ''
She sighed .
Mandy could be very stubborn when she believed she was right .
`` You said , lying was a cowardly act , and when I do something wrong , I should admit to it and take my punishment like a lady .
And I did climb on the fountain .
But I 'm not lying about the kitten ! ''
Mandy shook her head .
`` I am very disappointed in you , young lady .
As punishment , you will spend the rest of the day in your room , and you will get no supper tonight . ''
Differel nodded , defeated .
She knew it was useless to argue at that point .
`` Yes , Auntie . ''
`` Just a moment , Miranda . ''
Mandy stood up and turned around , and Differel stepped to one side of her , but she had recognized the voice immediately .
“How’s Liz ? ” Christ , Lance thought .
If talking about his job situation stabbed him like a knife to the gut , then discussing Liz was akin to twisting it .
He was surprised that Don even remembered her name .
They hadn’t spoken in more than a decade .
The man must have a memory like a steel trap .
“She’s leaving me , ” Lance said through gritted teeth .
“Oh man , I’m sorry .
I shouldn’t have asked.” “How could you know ? ” “Still .
That sucks.” “Yeah.” Lance hoped the uncomfortable silence between them would make Don get the hint and go away .
It didn’t .
“Has she filed the paperwork yet ? ” “What ? ” Lance stopped and turned to face Don , his eyes narrowing .
“That’s a bit inappropriate , isn’t it ?
I mean—” A woman stumbled past them , her skin ashy , spider veins running through her cheeks .
Her eyes stared straight ahead , unfocused and vacant .
Long blonde hair fell to her shoulders .
Lance and Don shared a confused glance .
“Ma’am ? ” Lance asked .
“Are you OK ? ” He knew how stupid the question sounded before it left his mouth , but it was all he could think to ask .
This woman couldn’t be further from OK. OK punched her in the face and skipped town quite a while ago .
“So hungry , ” she mumbled .
Her toes dragged along the sidewalk , her steps short and labored .
One of her shoes was missing .
“So hungry.” “Can I call someone for you ? ” Lance took a step toward her .
“Maybe we should let the paramedics handle this.” Don pulled his cell out and dialed 911 .
“Yeah , we have a woman walking down the sidewalk that needs some help .
Ninth and Grant .
She’s mumbling to herself and looks like she hasn’t seen the sun in a decade .
No , she’s not bleeding .
Look , she’s all kinds of fucked up .
Send someone down here pronto.” She continued on , bumping into people , teetering on unsure ankles .
Lance followed her , wanting to make sure she didn’t hurt herself , his problems momentarily melting away .
The condition of her skin stayed front and center in his mind , the varicose veins bothering him more than anything else did .
What could make someone look so horrible ?
The stench of soured dairy emanated from her pores .
Don jogged to catch up to him , dropping his phone into the pocket of his expensive suit .
“Ambulance is on the way .
They were being a major pain in the ass about it.” “What do you think is wrong with her ? ” Lance asked .
“Drugs , probably .
What else makes you incoherent and turns your skin to shit ? ” Don frowned at the woman as they followed her .
“Why exactly are we keeping tabs on her still ? ” “Because I don’t want her to get hurt.” “Oh , sure .
Yeah , me too.” “Besides , she doesn’t look like a drug addict to me.” “Lance , your powers of deduction suck .
Look at her , buddy .
She’s high as a kite.” Lance pointed at the back of her head .
“Check out her hair.” “What about it ? ” “It’s nice .
She takes care of herself .
Her jeans are designer and that is one huge ass diamond on her finger .
This isn’t some crackhead turning tricks for her next fix.” Don inspected her .
“I take it back—you might be on to something here .
So what are we looking at ?
A woman who caught a disease or something ? ” “Dunno.” “Shouldn’t we stay away from her then ?
What if she has the bird flu or mad cow ? ” Lance recognized his opportunity .
“Good idea .
Why don’t you hang back and I’ll take care of this ?
You can make sure the ambulance finds us .
It was nice catching up.” He really hoped that Don would finally leave him in peace .
“Shit , buddy .
I can’t leave you alone with her .
Besides , you never told me what happened with Liz.” Damn it .
She staggered sideways , brushing against a man eating a hotdog .
The food fell from his hand , landing against his white shirt and green tie , ketchup and mustard staining everything .
“Goddamn it ! ” The man scowled at his shirt in disbelief .
“What the hell are you doing , lady ? ” He turned on her , his mouth falling agape as he took in the cobweb of veins running through her face .
“Jesus ! ” “Just stay back ! ” Lance said as he walked up to the man .
“What’s wrong with her ? ” “No idea , but I wouldn’t touch her if I were you.” The man wiped at the condiments on his shirt .
“Too late for that , bro.” Lance and Don continued walking , staying five feet behind her .
People gave her a wide berth now , wary of coming anywhere near the sickly woman .
She seemed oblivious to everyone’s presence , careening along as if she were alone on the sidewalk .
A teenager with ear buds in , his head bobbing to music , jogged across the street , his eyes turned to look for traffic , and plowed right into her .
They both fell to the ground , limbs sprawling across the concrete .
An iPhone fell from the teen’s pocket , scraping along the harsh surface .
The kid’s head snapped around , lips curling in anger .
“You stupid—” He cut himself off when he saw her complexion , his rage shifting to fear .
He scrambled to his feet , grabbing his cell and sprinting away , throwing a concerned glance over his shoulder .
The woman , now scratched and bleeding , worked her way back to her feet , muttering to herself about her hunger .
“She’s completely out of it , buddy , ” Don said .
Lance wanted grab her arm and force her to stand still until the paramedics arrived , but he was afraid of catching whatever she had .
Instead , he did his best to warn people away , shouting every few seconds at someone else who wasn’t paying attention .
They crossed half of a block when Don stopped , shaking his head .
“I’m done .
No way am I going to risk getting sick .
She’s all messed up and we’re crazy if we keep following her.” “I’ll take it from here , ” Lance said , turning back .
“It’s not like I have anything else to do today.” “I’m sorry , buddy .
Diseases scare the hell out of me.” Don’s eyes cut from Lance to the woman and back again .
“I feel like a real shit leaving you.” Lance looked him over and felt that his old co-worker was being sincere .
He softened a little , wondering if he might have overreacted to Don when they first bumped into each other .
Maybe he wasn’t such a bad guy after all .
“Don’t worry about it .
Good luck with your investment or whatever.” “Sorry for prying about Liz too .
That was uncalled for.” “Again , don’t—” “Shit ! ” Don pointed over Lance’s shoulder , his face reddening .
“What ? ” Lance spun around and saw the woman stepping off the curb , teetering into the bustling street .
Don cursed but didn’t move .
Lance jumped forward , ten feet away , unsure if he would make it to the woman before a car flattened her like a pancake .
Horns blared .
People shouted .
She kept going , wandering blindly across the painted lines .
Lance ran around the back end of a parked car , swearing under his breath as he closed the distance .
A cab swerved around a stopped water truck , the driver slapping at the horn in impatience .
The man was too busy glaring at the truck to see what lay ahead .
Lance saw it coming at the last second , having little time to react .
He reached the woman and shoved her as hard as he could , lifting her feet from the ground .
I felt it today the strongest .
As soon as I entered class , the buzzing increased , like whispers .
“Here you are .
One frog for the both of us.” John plunked down a frog that had once been green but was a bone-gray now , staking pins gleaming under the LEDs .
That 's when the screaming started .
The whole earth felt like it was swiveling on its axis , and I was on top .
The whispering grew in volume until images flooded my head .
There were marshes and swamps .
A frog , in the bloom of its life , shiny with amphibian iridescence , leaped to a log , hoping to fool a small water moccasin close enough to take it .
( NO ! )
Right behind you !
I shouted in warning .
But I could n't be heard , these were images ... memories .
A motor boat was closing in on the frog , getting ready to take it with a metal pole and loose net on its end .
Caleb heard the frog 's thoughts , strange predator must seek cover ... noise ... hurts ... ( NO !
NO ! ! ! )
It was n't the only frog with memories .
Every cut my classmates made , a new flood of memories came .
I realized through some dim sense that I was on my back on the Biology floor .
Carson and Brett in the background wheezed with laughter .
“He bit it over a frog ?
Seriously ? ” Carson ranted .
Brett , not to be outdone caterwauled , “He 's a total girl ! ” Collins was moving his hand in front of my face , holding up fingers , but I was caught in the grip of the death memories , absorbing my consciousness .
The last thing I remember was John 's anxious face taking turns between telling the dumb-ass duo to shut up and seeing if I was gon na live .
My vision became gray at the edges , a pinpoint of black expanding to clear my mind of everything and I knew no more .
CHAPTER 1 Trees surrounding the cemetery danced in the languid breeze of the mild spring night .
I looked behind me at the pair of eighth grade boys who 'd come to egg me on .
They had discovered my secret : that I knew the dead , heard the dead .
Headstones glimmered like loose teeth in the moonlight , the whispering like a steady thrumming of white noise in my head .
My hands grew clammy .
“Caleb , show them you 're not a frickin ' poser , ” said Jonesy .
“I do n't pose.” My thoughts raged against each other in contrary purpose .
Proving to Carson and Brett that I had AFTD would n't keep them off my back completely , but it 'd notch down their stupidity to something me and my posse could manage .
That 's where it was , managing their shit behavior .
I took a step through the high , Victorian-style gate , my foot touching its reluctant toe on hallowed ground .
The feeling of being forced pressed uncomfortably against my mind .
Crossing the threshold of sanctified ground , the whispering turned into voices .
One voice whispered to me the strongest .
I stopped feeling tentative and like an invisible string pulled , was drawn toward one of the gravestones , standing sentinel near the middle of the cemetery , glowing softly in the moonlight .
I came to stand in front of the headstone which read : “Clyde Thomas , born 1900 , died 1929.” “Wake me ... ” it said .
“What ? ” I whispered .
It speaks .
“Wake me ... ” it repeated .
“Caleb , who are you talking to ? ” John asked , lack of understanding clear on his face .
My head swung in slow-motion as if through quicksand , moving in his direction , blood rushing in my ears and my heart beating thick and heavy in my chest .
Everything became crystallized in that moment .
John 's frizzy hair and freckles stood out like measles .
A microscopic chip lay like an imperfect shadow on the headstone , shining stark contrast to the white marble .
Something ... something ... was building , rising up as if underwater , rushing to the surface .
I was supposed to finalize something , but what ?
The whispering of the corpse in the earth was so loud it drowned out John 's words .
John 's mouth was moving but no sound was coming out .
What-the-hell ?
He was arguing with Jonesy , his teeth a pale slash against his dark face .
Flailing , Jonesy 's hand suddenly connected with my face .
My teeth slammed into my tongue and the taste of copper pennies filled my mouth .
I leaned over and a drop of blood hung tremulously on my bottom lip , falling to the grave like a black gem .
Everything clicked into place , vertigo spinning the graveyard on its side as if it had been waiting for this moment .
The ground rushed toward my face and I threw my hands out to brace my fall , fingers biting into damp earth .
A clawed hand broke through the ground like a spear through flesh .
Searching , it grasped my wrist , the bones pressing in a vise-like grip that captured my breath , the intense coldness of the grave lingering on its dead flesh .
The head of the corpse broke free of the ground , its shadowed gaze meeting mine , the hand releasing me .
I scuttled backward , standing up , swaying , overcome with , excitement ?
Fear ?
I had done this thing and now , did n't know how to undo it .
The corpse moved with purpose , pacing me as it used the undisturbed ground to leverage itself as another drop of my blood fell and landed with a dull plop on the corpse 's forehead .
The zombie 's gaze fixated on mine , it put a hand on its knee and began to push itself upright .
Dull , lank strands of hair hung loosely from a scalp strung together by a tight mask of rotten sinew .
Jonesy had long since run out of the cemetery and was at a “safe” range from what the ground had disgorged .
He better get his ass back here .
He could n't get away with whacking me and not helping me with corpse-boy .
“Why have you awoken me ? ” The words sounded garbled , maybe there was some tongue in there ?
Must not be rude , not my strongest point .
Out loud I said , “You asked me to.” John was standing at my right , trying to mask a fine , all-over tremble .
His freckles stood out on a pale face like beacons of fright .
“What the hell is this ? ” John asked .
He did n't really just ask that ?
John ... duh .
The zombie looked at me with eyes that clung from threads of sinew ; moving wetly in its sockets , sucking like a vacuum .
“Why have you woken me ? ” it repeated , shambling a step closer .
The smell ... wow .
It rose like a torrent of rotting garbage .
John clapped his hand over his nose , taking a step backward .
The corpse took another step closer .
“Got any brilliant suggestions ? ” I asked John , my eyes steady on the zombie , hoping like hell John would lend an intellectual hand .
“Do not have the Zombie Handbook handy , ” John said , his eyes a tad wide .
Not helpful .
The corpse looked at me , head tilted , “You 're just a boy ... how could you know for what purpose you have disturbed my slumber ? ” Uh-oh , coming up with an excuse , so not my thing .
“I did n't ... mean to wake you up ... ” I fumbled out .
I was n't usually this tongue-tied but meeting a corpse in the flesh ( ha-ha ) stole my speech .
“You do not know what you would have of me ?
You use your life-force to waken me and yet ... without purpose ?
Put me back , ” he said thickly .
His clothes hung in tatters and the smell was definitely old , dark coffin , not that I knew what that smelled like .
John 's look clearly said , do something !
I guess what I had n't told my friends was that I had never thought that I could actually raise the dead .
But here he was , standing before me in all his rotting glory .
Looking out amongst the teenagers collected outside the cemetery , “To whom much is given , much is expected .
Put me back , ” he said .
Adults were all the same , even dead , lecture , lecture .
“My partners .
When we found out about West Blackstone we thought it was ideal for property redevelopment.” “You bought up the village ? ” Adrian said warily .
`` No , no , '' he laughed .
“We’ll be gone after we’ve sold the remaining properties on our books .
We did kick off the redevelopment in this area by buying up plots of land ; other property developers , even some of the relatives of people who used to live here – those who wouldn’t sell to us – moved in to take advantage of the opportunities as well.” `` How far is the nearest town ? ''
Kara said , moving the subject on , turning now to the practicalities of living in the country .
The smile returned to her lips as he stretched out his hands with an over-enthusiastic grin , ready to pull another rabbit out of the hat .
`` Only a ten minute drive , '' he announced .
`` Some stores in town also deliver .
But we have some stores here as well , and I’m sure there’ll be more as the village grows.” '' Well , what do you think ? ” Adrian said .
`` It 's an opportunity that might not come up again , '' Mr Prior warned , still grinning .
“I do like the place , ” she conceded .
Adrian kissed her cheek .
`` Do you need time to think about it ? ” The truth was she didn’t want Mr Prior to think his irritating sales talk had anything to do with their decision .
Despite that , it was the perfect property in a perfect location .
“No , ” she answered .
“Let’s buy it.” It was what he wanted to hear .
He kissed her again , took her hand as he turned to Mr Prior , who was scarcely able to contain his excitement , his eyes roving over them both expectantly .
“Mr Prior , ” Adrian said , “we 'll take it . ''
There was someone there with her .
Blinded in the pitch black , she could only hear their quick , rasping breaths , seizures of agony .
Indefinable , persuasive , the realization drove her scrambling blindly on her hands and knees to get away , grazing her skin against rough , uneven ground , her body quaking with a constant , piercing chill .
Her head struck an obstruction at her side – in time , she choked a cry in her throat as she grasped what it was - the cracked , rough-hewn surface of a rock wall .
Fumbling in the dark , she wound herself round and pressed her back up against the wall , folded her arms across her stomach and shrank into herself , listened as the presence scrabbled in different directions .
It was searching for her .
Holding her back to the wall , she worked her way alongside it as the presence continued its search , frantically groping for the entrance she convinced herself had to be there .
Instead , the wall curved , broke away from the ceiling and sloped down the further she went , widened and stretched across the ground – taking a step back , she caught her foot in a gap .
Stumbling , she pulled herself up .
But it was too late ; she had given herself away .
Breaths reduced to suffocated gasps , the thing clambered in her direction .
Meeting the same obstructions , it clawed at the stone with frustration .
Unable to retreat , she kept still , praying it wouldn’t find her .
But then two veined , blood-red eyes emerged from the dark in front of her ; and a long , emaciated hand with protruding bones and cracked skin clutched hold of her neck and pulled her down .
She screamed .
“Kara… ? ” She sat bolt upright in bed , and exhaled with relief .
`` Another bad dream ? ''
Adrian said sleepily beside her .
`` Sorry , did I wake you ? ''
she apologised .
He placed his hand on her arm .
`` It 's stress , '' he suggested .
`` There 's a lot happening right now ; you’re bound to be a little anxious .
It 'll be alright when we move into our new home . ''
`` Yes , '' she agreed , unconvinced , only agreeing to reassure him .
`` Give it time .
Go back to sleep . ''
`` Yes , '' she repeated , and sat back against the headboard , and watched as he drifted off .
The truth was she had tried to go back to sleep ; the dream had simply continued where it left off .
No , she didn’t want to return .
She would wait until morning .
They had spent so long fantasizing about and planning their move to the country that there were no obstacles , second thoughts or delays once the decision was made .
There was nothing to stop them – how could there be when this was the realization of one of their life’s goals .
They both threw their energy into ensuring the move went painlessly and quickly ; and for the most part , despite minor traffic delays , sullen , foul-mouthed delivery men , and some broken crockery , they succeeded .
The builders and decorators they hired completed the additional work they wanted on the house before the move .
When they got to the house they only had to unpack their possessions and decide the best place for them ; and here , after working together so effectively , was where there were a surprising number of disagreements and eventual compromises between them .
Their only neighbours were an elderly couple who lived out of sight , further down the road , and didn’t seem to be particularly interested in them .
The other homes were scattered throughout the village .
The heart of the village - or the only place with any activity - was the square , which consisted of a general store , butchers , restaurant , café and pub .
There was also Mr Prior’s office ; his base of operations until he sold his last house .
Every time she saw him he was busy showing more prospective buyers around ; with his salesman grin fixed on his face and constant chatter , he still had time to wave to her In attempts to dissuade them from the move , their well-meaning friends had warned them about the perils of country life ; living in a small population out in the middle of nowhere .
Supposedly , because there was nothing better to do , everyone spent most of their idle time snooping on and gossiping about their fellow inhabitants .
But no prying villagers turned up at their door .
They did receive some interested glances when they were out and about , but nothing more .
And there were things to do .
If the activities in the village weren’t sufficient , the neighbouring town was only a twenty minute drive .
But it wasn’t what either of them wanted .
They had known what to expect when they made their move : a quiet life .
“You’re new.” It wasn’t a question ; it was a statement delivered in a quiet , flat , monotone voice by the store owner ; a thin woman with a smooth , expressionless face and lustreless eyes .
On the opposite side of the counter , a man stood beside her with the same vacant look .
They had the same build and height , and even wore the same thick-rimmed glasses – brother or sister , or individuals who had somehow discovered each other because of their likeness .
Kara smiled at them .
“Yes , only been here a month .
My name’s – ” “You moved here by yourself ? ” The smile froze on her face .
“Yes , ” she answered evenly , “with my husband.” “Children ? ” “No , but we’re – ” “Do you work ? ” “I’m a graphic designer .
I work from home .
Sorry , I’m in a rush .
Can I pay – ” “What about your husband ? ” “Journalist.” Her patience was wearing thin .
Determined to finish the welcoming party’s interrogation , she pushed the items on the counter forward and took out her purse .
“Why did you move ? ” “What - ” “Bloody hell , Vanessa , do you have to give all the new people the third degree ? ” a voice from behind her interrupted .
Flustered , Vanessa began to put the items through the till .
“Just taking an interest , Rachel , ” she said defensively .
Stifling a laugh , Kara turned to face Rachel , who was wrapped up in a thick , parka coat , overlong scarf she had wound around her neck twice , and a chunky knitted hat- she caught glimpses of auburn hair tucked inside .
Her face was half-concealed by the warm clothing , but nothing could hide the glittering eyes and wide , infectious smile .
Rachel winked discretely at her .
“Well , let the poor woman settle in first , ” she went on .
“Well , really , I didn’t mean anything by it , ” Vanessa said defensively , nudging her companion to put the goods into a bag as she took Kara’s money and worked out the change .
“Of course you didn’t , ” Rachel responded .
She waited for Kara to take the change , and then grabbed her arm and led her away .
“Well , we’re off for coffee .
Bye.” Rachel and her boyfriend , Luke , had lived in West Blackstone for two and a half years .
They were artists ; Rachel was a painter , Luke a sculptor , and , though the rewards were intermittent , they made sufficient money from their work to get by .
There were the basic utility bills to be paid , but living in the country was cheaper than the city .
Both vegetarians , they managed to grow most of their food in a spacious garden , and made an additional living by selling their produce .
Despite the overcast sky and the slight chill in the air , they decided to sit outside the café – the owners were gossip buddies with Vanessa and her husband ( not her brother after all ) and to be avoided .
Apart from people passing by from time to time , there were builders working on a new shop on the opposite side of the road .
The town was definitely the place to go to for any excitement , but neither of them had the inclination to make the journey .
They were happy to stay where they were .
`` Do you miss anything ? ''
Rachel asked , leaning back in her chair , sipping at her coffee .
Captain Nestorenko would be the first victim from the MV Rocket , a mocking name for such a slow and lumbering work ship .
He may have been the first of the crew to die but certainly he wouldn’t be the last .
Shutov looked down the ship’s corridors , there could be more people inside .
Technically he was now the Captain and therefore it was his responsibility to sweep the ship .
Under maritime law he could be prosecuted for failing to do so ... he spat onto the ship .
What law ?
Only the law of the jungle matters now , he thought as he jumped into the cold black sea .
Being First Officer , Shutov had seen all the reports , heard the radio transmissions first hand .
He understood that he was swimming towards a future fraught with danger , facing an enemy unimaginable .
Chapter 2 – The Boy They called him 'The Boy . '
The nickname was apt as he was only fifteen .
To get on the ship he lied about his age and although they may have suspected he wasn’t eighteen , they didn’t probe .
This was his first job , his first outing and although big and strong for his age , he couldn’t hide his youth or innocence .
The others joked with him , mocked him , some kidded that he might make a nice wife on those long journeys – at least he hoped they were kidding .
Even at shore they called him The Boy .
At the seaside brothel they’d stopped at in the last port he was mocked by the crew .
The girls were kinder , they called him cute and one grabbed his crotch .
He remembered how hard that got him – how quickly his erection had come on .
But he didn’t have enough money to pay and the others , his so called crewmates , would n't lend him any .
When he asked about owing her or paying next time he was in port the girl laughed at him and suddenly the erection was gone .
Dejected , he left and walked the streets – in hindsight he was lucky not to have been robbed and murdered .
Being a naive country boy , he wasn’t aware of the dangers that existed in a city late at night .
He didn’t understand the perils of trusting people who would do him harm just for the paltry sum of money he carried .
Even his plan for the ship was naive .
He figured that he would travel on the ship until he found a country that was interesting and then he’d just jump off and stay .
Oblivious to the need for things like visas and immigration clearance , The Boy thought the plan sounded reasonable – and what adventures he would have .
Those adventures seemed to be short lived as he huddled , cold and wet , on the shore of Chernarus .
The First Officer had announced that they should jump and swim to shore and that’s just what he did .
It had seemed close , but he wasn’t a very strong swimmer and the currents had pushed him down along the coast .
After a while his arms became heavy and each stroke weighed them down further .
He heard the waves crashing on the sand and he knew the beach was close .
Pushing on , he swallowed water until actual waves formed , dunking him underneath the water with every crash .
He knew then that he was close to the shore .
The sand scrubbed his baby smooth face as he was suddenly thrown on the shore .
Coughing up sea water , he dragged himself further up the sand and flipped over , staring up at the sky .
The sky was cloudless and the stars were bright – without any electrical lights or buildings to blanket them .
It reminded him of home .
He stared for a long while - as his breath slowed and his brain began to function again .
There was the northern star .
Using that and his watch , he could find north .
Being a country boy had its advantages it seemed .
His back was sore – something was digging into it .
The patrol pack – he still had it on .
They were designed to provide assistance in an emergency – everything he needed would be inside .
Greedily , The Boy opened his pack , certain he would find water , canned food , a compass and a map - all the survival essentials .
Looking inside , all he found was a torch , painkillers and a bandage .
How could anyone survive with this useless bunch of junk ?
Where was the gun ?
Or at least a hunting knife ?
Lying in the sand he cursed his bad luck - what sadist decided this would be useful in a survival situation ?
Fortunately he was near a town , even though there were no lights on , he could see the shadows of tall buildings in the distance .
All he needed to do was walk in that direction , and he had a torch , so it wasn’t like he was going to break a leg fumbling in the dark .
He rested for a while in the sand , double-checked his provisions and tested the torch .
Waterproof - of course it was waterproof - this is a boat survival kit .
Satisfied everything was in order , he rose and brushed the sand off his soggy clothes .
Walking away from the beach , he listened to the sounds of crashing waves and his almost silent footsteps on soft grass .
Not wanting to waste battery life , he kept the torch off as he made his way from the beach towards the buildings’ shadows .
His footsteps changed sound as he arrived at something hard .
Kneeling down , he patted the surface which felt like bitumen .
He turned on the torch to be sure - he was right – he’d arrived at a road .
Sweeping the road with his torch he saw an unused road flare which he grabbed .
The road went north and south but north was where the buildings and … “Urrrrrrrrr , ” softly in the distance he heard the moan .
It was faint and he wasn’t completely sure he’d heard it .
He turned on the torch and shined it in the direction of the sound .
“Hugrhuhhhhhhhhhhh , ” the moaning was a little louder , definitely coming from up the road .
“Hello ? ” he called out .
“Ugurghhhhh , ” the moaning sounded back .
The Boy walked down the road calling out with the moaning response that came closer with each step .
One of the crew must have washed up ahead and was hurt , he thought .
He could hear a sound – a scraping along the bitumen .
He stopped walking so that the only sound was now the scraping .
Looking down the road he saw a person crawling along the road .
Oh shit he’s hurt really bad , The Boy thought as he rushed to the person , the light of the torch swinging wildly with every step .
Looking down at the person on the road his first thought was that whoever he was , he was not from the ship .
Then the smell hit him – rot and the decay of human flesh .
Whatever had broken this poor person’s legs had turned gangrenous – just like the lame sheep they had to put down last year .
The Boy looked around ; there were no buildings or cars nearby .
How long had this poor person been crawling along the road for help ?
The injured man crawled closer and his face looked like it was caked in dried blood , especially around the mouth .
But it was dark and even under the torchlight The Boy didn’t really believe it was blood , it was dark brown and could have been dirt .
The man couldn’t speak , he just kept groaning and crawling towards the light .
The Boy stood looking around .
There was nothing he could do for this poor man alone , but maybe with someone else helping , they could carry him to help .
He waved the torch around but it wasn’t that bright , so people wouldn’t see it from far away .
He dropped the still lit torch and the man crawled towards it grabbing it with both hands .
Then he remembered the flare he had just found .
The Boy took it out of his patrol pack and looked it over .
This was better ; people would see this from far away .
Stepping away from the crawling man to the middle of the road , he cracked the flare .
Suddenly the whole area was illuminated in a bright red light .
He waved the flare over his head a couple of times before dropping it at his feet .
That would get their attention .
Proud of himself , he stepped back from the red flare and looked around for people .
Behind him he didn’t notice the injured man crawling towards him .
Although technically he wasn’t crawling to The Boy as he was more interested in the red flare , The Boy was just between him and it .
The Boy heard the man crawling towards him .
“It’s okay , help will be coming soon , ” he said as even now in the distance he could see shadows running towards them .
He felt the man grab his leg as he watched the shadows run towards him , it looked like three men had seen his flare .
The grip around his ankle tightened and then without warning he was suddenly experiencing pain .
He looked down to see that the man had bitten him - like a rabid dog .
Three globes stood on top of the bookcase – one showing the features of this world .
As always it was turned so the American continent faced the room .
The second showed the stars in the heavens .
Yet the third , made of some strange iridescent purple material that was neither metal nor stone , showed a world completely unknown to science .
It was threaded with dark rivers and mountain ranges surrounding a vast plateau .
Some students , of the more irreverent and practical types , thought that Bamford had commissioned it as a jest .
Others , especially those allowed access to the forbidden tomes stored in locked rooms in a cellar beneath Miskatonic 's library , shuddered and hinted darkly at a certain world not of this galaxy .
A world intimated towards the end of Abdul al-Hazred 's tome .
Bamford himself kept silent on the subject .
All he would confirm was that he found it beneath Yucatan 's rainforest in ruins far older than the Olmec civilisation .
Professor Bamford turned away from the bookcase .
A student with the build of a linebacker stood and smiled at Tarleton .
`` Thank you for your time , professor , '' the student said politely .
`` I 'm only glad you 've decided to continue your studies here , Webster .
As you will be aware , Miskatonic has a policy of supporting scientific expeditions and I know that you will be interested in going to ... , '' Bamford broke off , recalling his visitor .
`` Come back Thursday ; no , make it Friday , and we 'll talk further . ''
With a polite nod to Tarleton , Webster made his way out , closing the door behind him .
Professor Bamford stood and gripped Tarleton 's hands warmly .
`` Jack .
I 'm so glad to see you again .
You 're looking good .
Austin 's been treating you well , I see . ''
`` Yes , professor , but I am glad to be back home .
My parents have kept my room for me . ''
Jack Tarleton 's father was a successful businessman who had got rich supplying timber even before the Great War .
After the end of hostilities , Royce Tarleton had gone on to make even more money out of reconstruction in Europe .
The family lived in one of the grand old mansions on French Hill .
`` That 's good , Jack .
I sha n't expect you to do much during your first trimester ... , '' '' I intend to pull my weight , professor . ''
`` ... however , teaching our students ; collating our displays , cataloguing our archives and such like will form much of your work until Christmas . ''
Tarleton leaned forwards , resting his arms on his knees , facing the Department Head .
`` With respect , professor , I did more than that at Austin .
I can guess what 's been said about me but I can assure you that you need have no fears .
I 'm completely over my ... panic attacks .
I intend to be fully involved in the life of the University and if there are any expeditions next year then I would like to be considered .
Are there any ? ''
`` Any what ? ''
asked Bamford .
`` Expeditions .
Where are you going ? ''
Professor Bamford looked away , out of the window .
`` Nothing 's been decided yet , Jack .
Nothing .
It 's all a matter of securing funding , you understand . ''
The two men shook hands and Tarleton left .
As he crossed the quadrangle , Bamford stood by the window and watched his progress .
Tarleton stopped and chatted to Dr. Armitage , the college librarian before carrying on out of sight .
To Bamford , Tarleton looked fit and well ; a young man without a care in the world and not the desperate , catatonic wreck he had been when the rescuers from the ship made it to that blasted camp in the end .
Bamford smiled .
Yes , it was time for young Jack to come home to Arkham .
* * * Meanwhile , after asking Dr. Armitage about library access , Tarleton walked under the archway and out onto College Street .
Outside the university precincts , carters and taxi drivers were dropping off boxes and trunks belonging to the students starting the new term .
The late afternoon sun was still strong and Tarleton 's shadow stretched out before him .
Crossing Garrison Street , Tarleton spotted an ice truck outside a restaurant .
The driver swung down from his bench seat , draped his reins over the brake and opened the truck 's insulated doors .
He placed sacking over his shoulder as cold air billowed out in a wave of condensation .
The driver climbed inside and backed out carrying a block of ice .
Tarleton stopped walking , his mind fixed on the ice .
Even as the iceman crossed the sidewalk splinters of ice fell from the block , melting the instant they hit the sun-warmed cobbles .
Tarleton watched , transfixed as a woman opened the restaurant 's door and let the iceman in .
The two spoke together in Italian .
A minute later , the man returned , stuffing some money into his apron pocket .
The iceman then swung back up into his seat , clicked his tongue and his tired looking nag picked up his hoofs and shuffled down Garrison Street to make the next drop-off .
Rooted to the spot , Tarleton still had n't moved .
Ice .
Cold , sub-zero ice .
The Arctic wastes of Baffin Island .
The raw , howling , cutting wind ; the land 's grey rocks rimed with frost .
And then the pure Hell of what came out of the blizzard and into their camp .
No , no , no ... his mind shrieked .
`` Mister ... , mister , are you alright ?
Mister ? ''
Tarleton felt several tugs on his sleeve , pulling him from that nightmare and back into the sunny street .
A boy , maybe nine or ten years old , was pulling him towards the restaurant .
His mother was standing by the door , a look of concern on her face .
She said something in rapid Italian to the boy who replied in the same language .
The boy dragged Tarleton into the restaurant and sat him down at a table with a red chequered tablecloth before running and fetching a glass of water from the kitchen .
`` The heat , signor ?
You felt faint ? ''
the woman asked .
Her dark brown eyes looked into his as if searching his soul .
She pushed several strands of black hair out of her face as she did so .
Tarleton shook his head .
`` No , ma'am , not the heat .
Something ... something came over me .
I do n't know ... , '' Tarleton 's voice tailed off .
The boy brought a glass of water and placed it before him .
The boy then stood next to his mother ; like hers his big brown eyes staring .
Tarleton reached out his hand .
Then stopped .
His hand shook , a slight tremor at first but then a definite tremble .
He withdrew his hand .
Condensation beaded the glass .
Yet what stopped Tarleton 's hand floated on top of the water .
Chips of ice .
Like little icebergs floating in the Davis Strait .
One chip chinked against another and it dipped beneath the surface .
A crack splintered the ice .
`` Your water , signor , '' the woman reminded Tarleton , pushing the glass closer .
His eyes stared , fixed on those tiny chips of ice .
It’s only morning !
At this rate , it’ll work out to be five or six accidents by the time we go to bed !
From deep inside his belly , the fire-voice said , No one’s that clumsy , Rugs .
Oh ?
Brine answered , sarcastically .
You don’t think I know that ?
The fire voice said , Not even bumbling Godfry’s that clumsy .
At this , Brine remembered his former teacher and stopped slinging his hands like a crazy person .
There was always the chance that Godfry had experienced his own nasty accident and , as a consequence , wouldn’t mind a little extra mud on his robes , but since the old man had remained exempt from the first accidents , Brine erred on the side of caution and directed the muddy excess on his hands at the soupy creek bed between his ankles .
Better safe than sorry , he thought , sliding his hands over his ears and discovering he could hear the old man back there , the sound of slow and irregular footfalls struggling through the mire , the sound of desperate breaths being sucked down a windpipe .
But he’ll still try and talk , Brine thought , smirking to himself .
God love him , he could be breathing his last and he’d still try to talk .
“…hel…hello… , ” Godfry panted .
“…hello there…” Brine stopped dragging his fingertips through the grooves of his face and frowned .
He wondered why Godfry would be telling him hello .
It was possible that the old man had forgotten who he was again—My , oh my , that never got old—but it was equally possible the old man was speaking to someone else , someone coming up hard on their right .
From behind Godfry , in sharp contrast to the old man’s weak and meandering footsteps through the mire , there came the sound of something heavy stomping through the riverbed , the sound of tree trunk legs churning up the sprawling trail of slop .
Had they been in the Sway to the south , Brine would have guessed he was listening to the passage of a bull or stallion stamping through the pasture , but since they were here in the fields of Arn’s Promise , he guessed it was the adult male of another species .
He did not , however , need to guess what the creature was up to .
In the same panicked movement , Brine went scrambling out of the way and turned to face the oncoming footfalls , glancing up just in time to spy a barrel-chested man charging towards him from the eastern bank .
The man was wearing knee-high boots , baggy trousers , and a sleeveless vest that allowed Brine to see the spidery thatch of armpit hair exploding from between his massive chest and his meat-slab arms .
Leaning heavily on his stick , sandals clutched loosely in one hand , Godfry said , in a series of panting half-breaths , “…and how…how are you…today…good si— ? ” “I’m very well , ” Brine said , taking his teacher by the arm and drawing him very gently out of the way .
“…not…not you… , ” Godfry protested , giving him a weary , yet quizzical look .
“…I was… speaking to…to this…this gentleman…” “Oh , ” Brine said , making no indication that he saw the other man , save for the quick series of high-steps he made to get clear of him .
“I’m sorry .
I , uh…I didn’t see him there.” “…he’s…right…there… , ” Godfry explained , nodding at the man with his bushy head of cottony hair .
He watched as the man’s curly black beard split in the conniving grin of a weasel , a grin Brine had been seeing all morning long : bruised and lumpy gums , bent and yellowed teeth—missing teeth—flecks of black here and there ( from the vine ) .
Letting the grin linger , the man tipped Brine a nod , hoicked his pack higher on his back , and turned his head back to the western bank .
He never once glanced at the old man in the bright yellow robes .
Brine dropped his gaze from the big man’s face and let it droop like a violet on a cloudy day .
He marked the man’s passage by the wet plopping of his boots .
“…there… , ” Godfry muttered , adjusting his foot in the mud , “…did you see that…Sam’s boy…did you see…that man didn’t see me either…” Brine paused in his sludge-removal and glanced sideways at his former teacher .
It was possible , he supposed , that the mud had finally sucked the bright yellow robes from the old man’s body , but such was not the case .
When he glanced to the left , he saw the same canary-yellow garb Godfry had been wearing earlier that day , the same assortment of , what appeared to be , lime-green monkey arms sown into the fabric .
Shaking his head , Brine doubted strongly that anyone with two working eyes could miss this esthetic abomination , but he kept that to himself .
Over the past few days , he had learned the hard way that there was no reasoning with his former teacher .
For that matter , there was no arguing with him either .
It seemed that somehow , over the last ten ages of his estrangement , his childhood mentor had finally succeeded in saturating his mind .
He’d grabbed for one too many books , he’d entertained one too many thoughts , and his mind had finally reached maximum occupancy .
This would explain why previously acquired information was now seeping out , such as Brine’s identity .
It would also explain why new information wasn’t seeping in , like all the reasons Brine had given for not wearing a banana-tinted outfit or , better yet , not going to the Harriun in the first place .
Brine wasn’t the only one , either .
The council had given the old codger ample reason for refraining from these missions—the fact that he was an old codger ranking high among them—but the old codger simply refused to listen .
As soon as Godfry realized that everyone else’s name was printed on one of the four decrees and that his was the only name omitted , the council might as well have stuck their heads out the nearest window and argued with the ravens on the parapets or the ants in the mortar .
Stay and oversee the castle , Mums had urged him .
A common point of reference for the other missions is just as important as participating in a mission .
To which Godfry had said , Now , which one are you going on , Mums ?
And after this , Reets had hobbled forward and said , Godfry , yeh ole goat , why don’tcha stay an’ do some’a that readin yeh like so much .
Cain’t never get too much’a that readin , huh ?
To which Godfry had turned and said , And when does your trip leave , Reets ?
In the end , Godfry had simply worn them down , resisting their sagacious advice like a very old and obtuse pillar of hair .
When it was clear that he was about to accompany the royal healer on what was likely the second most dangerous mission of the four—Fair’s fair , now .
Poor Kowin’s taking his vacation all by his lonesome—Mums had grudgingly allowed the eldest adviser to accompany Balthus Sneel into the Harriun .
Some of the other advisers had balked at this , Godfry among them , but once the titan had explained that it would be the safest of the missions ( no other mission had thirty hired men-at-arms as acting escorts ) the remaining advisers rescinded their objections .
Except for Godfry , that was .
He took slightly longer to convince than the others , one more example of his oversaturated mind .
It was not until he was informed that Brine was going along that he changed his tune .
Sam’s boy’s going ?
he had cheered .
Oh , good .
I haven’t seen Sam’s boy in ages !
Sam’s boy , on the other hand , was not so happy .
He’d been happy that first night in the castle , back when he thought his childhood idol still had a clue , but now…well , not so much .
If he wasn’t pulling Godfry’s feet out of the river mud , he was detangling his walking stick from the bean sprouts or unhooking his satchel from the corn stalks .
If it wasn’t a physical ailment requiring his attention , it was one of a cognitive nature .
In fact , the vast majority of the issues were cognitive in nature .
So no , there was no changing the thoughts in Godfry’s head ( at least not without a sharp stick and a hammer ) .
Brine could either ignore the old man or he could march back to the City of Onador and give up .
Sloughing off the muck from his arms , one arm at a time , Brine said , “I wonder what that’s about , them not seeing you.” “…I…I don’t know… , ” Godfry confessed , his head nodding , “…it’s like…it’s like I’m… invisible…Sam’s boy.” “That’s horrible , ” Brine said , scraping at the layer of scum on his belly .
“I wish there was something we could do about that.” “…indeed… , ” Godfry said , staring at the embankment without shame , “…they seem to…to notice you just fine…” Brine made a sideways glance at the western bank and caught a blurry glimpse of their Lathian escorts .
They were jeering and pointing and , general speaking , having a hardy laugh at his expense .
Forgive and forget , he told himself .
You got that right , the belly-fire agreed .
Because if they’re still acting like that after everything you and the old man have done , then there’s no help for them .
Unless you want to go over and apologize for not getting out of their way ?
Is that what you want ?
Go over and tell them how sorry you are for getting knocked down ?
Maybe open the conversation by apologizing for all the air you’ve been breathing and all the space you’ve been taking up ?
He gave a weak chuckled at this , the only chuckle he’d had that day , and decided to forgive and forget .
He wasn’t ready to give up on the Leresh Mission ( or on fixing his kingdom and restoring the Temples of Owndiah ) and the Lathians weren’t interested in making friendly , so forgive-and-forget was his only option .
As for the most recent set of slurping noises he heard closing in from behind… Very gently , Brine took his teacher by the arm , guided him away from the sounds , and spun to face his attacker .
The hulking man in the river mud—the one who’d been drifting steadily towards him as he cut across the Leresh—quickly straightened his path into something resembling a line .
He parted his lips at Brine and offered another ugly , vine-speckled grin .
Some might have interpreted this gesture as a sheepish concession that the man had momentarily forgotten the rule about straight lines and the quickest routes between them , but Brine did not .
Brine saw it for what it was…another bitter concession that the man’s mischief had been revealed .
Tha’s one fer you , boy-o , those yellowed teeth declared .
Tha’s one fer you , but let’s jus wait an’ see bout next time , huh ?
Oblivious to the look , Godfry released his walking stick and raised an old and age-spotted hand .
“Hello there , ” he called , giving a palsied , little wave .
“Nice day , today.” The Lathian mercenary crashed past the old man without so much as a cordial nod or a wink of acknowledgement , his menacing gaze never straying from the disciple .
Godfry’s fatigued face sagged with consternation .
“Did you hear me , Sam’s boy ? ” Brine ran his fingers down his sides and flipped the excess at the ground .
“Yes , ” he said , pulling the back of his robes around ( the clean side ) and wiping off his hands .
His teacher lowered his bushy brows and brooded over this , staring at the wet of the riverbed as he constructed his next question .
He seemed to have one forming , as indicated by the slight quivering in the vicinity of his lips , but before the inquiry could come the old man placed his free hand to the walking stick and seeming to collapse upon it .
“Are we close ? ” he asked .
Scraping his only slightly-cleaner hands across his forehead and cheeks , Brine said , “Close to what ? ” “To stopping.” Brine’s hand froze at his chin .
He could feel his frustration with the Lathians trying to tear itself free and go after the old man .
Or lying .
It would n't be the first time .
“I 'll try to be home by five , ” she assured him , though she was n't confident that time had any meaning for George any more .
“I wo n't take on extra hours , no matter how much Shirley pleads.” George scratched at his ear .
Half of it fell off against the back of the couch .
She picked it up carefully with a clean paper towel and discarded it in the kitchen wastebasket .
She 'd done all she could , but no human being can keep up with what nature intends .
Regardless of how much she kept the bacteria at bay , they were still there , whittling away at her George .
With tears in her eyes , Frankie made sure to bolt the side door three times , checking with her hip to see that it could n't be bodychecked open .
He was locked in good and proper by the look of it .
She need n't worry about a thing .
CHAPTER TWO : The Happy Restful Afterlife Home Frankie sighed over her noodles as steam wafted up from them , her appetite effectively quashed .
A foul stench coalesced with the broth into a putrid miasma of soured blood thanks to the close proximity of her co-worker , Shirley , and her stained uniform .
Shirley took another large bite of her BBQ tofu meatball sandwich , watery sauce dripping onto her already red-streaked apron .
“I do n't know how you survive , eating what little you do , ” Shirley boomed .
Shirley was a large woman , with an equally large voice .
There were rumours she had an adam 's apple , but these were spawned by prejudice against a woman with a strong will and a cymbal for a voice box , one that clanged with an attention grabbing explosion at every opportunity .
She finished her sandwich in two gulps , as if to illustrate her point .
“Little birds get eaten by fat cats , that 's what they say.” With her massive arms and wide neck and towering height of nearly six feet , Shirley was more rottweiler than feline , complete with a drool line of hickory flavoured BBQ sauce , which she wiped off her chin with the back of her meaty hand .
“Can you believe they are increasing our hours again ?
Greedy assholes.” Frankie paused over her uneaten noodles , the chicken broth growing a skin .
More hours ?
They did almost sixty hours a week as it was and it was killing her .
She could n't do more than that , not with George at home ... Being the way he was .
“I ca n't do it , ” Frankie quietly said .
“I know what you mean honey .
If I could afford it , I 'd quit this place in a heartbeat .
This place eats people , good , hard working stiffs like us .
That damn Head Office grinds us into mince and feeds us to into the goddamned arena every damned day and twice on Sunday.” She shook her head , a righteous fury building within her as she looked on Frankie .
“Breaks my heart , it do .
Here you are , what , sixty-seven ?
Maybe even older ?
You supposed to be done your time working , you and George .
What did any of this godforsaken business get you but a quick yank back to where you do n't belong .
What did you get , three years ? ” “Something like that , ” Frankie softly replied .
“Three years of retired bliss before you found your sad ass here.” “I have to work , Shirley , ” Frankie reminded her .
“I told you , George and I are going to lose the house if we do n't pay the afterlife tax due on it.” “You know as well as I do that house is paid for ten times over .
If you ask me , that bank manager is pulling a fast one , and you would n't be the only ones caught in his schemes .
You know Martha ?
Does the night shift ?
She lost her condo thanks to some 'mortuary premium tax ' she supposedly needed to pay .
Nothing like that in her mortgage , but that bastard seems to think there 's a clause there , even if it was made up well before the whole Osmosis thing was invented .
You do n't need to tell me it 's all a scam , he 's laughing his ass off in that locked office of his.” “He 's got all the proof that we own it , ” Frankie said , a familiar feeling of hopelessness taking her over .
“He 's hidden away the mortgage agreement and I know he 's making it up as he goes along .
We 've tried calling the police , but they were n't interested .
Fraud is n't enough of a crime these days , they said .
He 's holding our house hostage and there 's nothing we can do about it.” Frankie 's spoon settled into her soup , and she pushed the bowl away .
`` He 's forcing us into the city .
We ca n't afford to live there , not with George the way he is , needing his wheelchair and with the cost of his heart medication .
My own health is n't what it once was .
We ca n't work in the city , the pace is just too fast , and everything there is so expensive .
I never thought it would come to this -- I 've never wanted to be anywhere but here , in New Hope , until the day I died . ''
Shirley stewed as she listened to Frankie , her girth spilling over the small plastic chair in the staff room , her legs braced for any sign of war .
“Greedy assholes , ” she muttered .
She took a deep breath , and Frankie braced herself .
Shirley was about to let loose one of those most terrible of thunders : Her Opinion .
But there was no time for a loud , booming Shirley tirade .
Larry barrelled into the staff room , a torn nylon fishing net in his hand , a cattle prod in the other , its tip blinking red and stinking of freshly seared , rotted flesh .
Without a word he sank against the door , and crouched there for a few minutes in an effort to catch his breath .
“Mr .
Crone just about got me , ” he said , in between gasping for air in both fear and relief .
He balanced the still live cattle prod in his hand .
“If it were n't for this and the good ten whacks I gave him I 'd be a goner for sure .
You 'd be spending an extra hour after work mopping me up.” “You could mop up your own ass , ” Shirley said , sizing him up .
“Besides , you 're too skinny to take an hour .
Fifteen minutes clean-up , tops.” “There 's a more serious problem here.” He tapped the side of his head with his forefinger .
“This side of Mr. Crone 's cranium is all mashed in .
His left eye is just about ready to fall off his cheek.” Shirley cursed .
“Just when you thought a day could n't get better .
Thanks for nothing , Larry.” “Come on , Shirl , what was I supposed to do ?
He broke free of the arena and tried to rip my damned head off .
Unlike Mr. Crone , whatever the hell he is , mine ca n't get sewn back on.” “Do n't know why we 'd even bother since you do n't use it anyhow.” Shirley heaved her large , muscular bulk out of her chair .
“Guess I got to make a phone call .
Mrs. Crone 's going to be pissed.” *** The Happy Restful Afterlife Home is anything but what its name suggests .
The residents—and the term was used loosely—were n't exactly the type of people who could wile away their golden years watching Barney Miller reruns and contemplating purchasing items from the Shopping Channel .
There were no libraries full of Reader 's Digest condensed books in hardcover editions , no Scrabble boards , no Bingo , not even the occasional 1400 piece puzzle .
These residents never slept , they always had an air of suffering about them that was n't caused by boredom but by a strange , almost psychic sense of being wronged .
They seemed to be in great pain , if all that moaning meant anything , but it was difficult to discern if they ever did feel emotions .
Certainly , they ripped into a dead cow with a remarkable enthusiasm that was rarely seen in human beings , and if fully digesting an adult bovine within five minutes was a form of happiness , then these beings were ecstatic .
Most of the people working at the Happy Restful were n't doctors or nurses before the Osmosis 37 enzyme was developed and made commercially available to the public .
The people in those professions , along with morticians and funeral directors , were the first to go .
Shirley used to be a butcher before she got work here , and Larry had spent his productive days at the local meat processing plant in the factory up the street from her .
Frankie had worked as a full-time cashier at Wal-Mart for twenty years , which was in its own way a kind of human meat grinder , full of odds and ends of grumbling need .
She 'd never run into any rogue reanimates during her time there , because in those days such monsters simply did n't exist .
She 'd never thought her time working cash at Wal-Mart would have been remembered as the good old days .
She 'd been retired for three years before the Osmosis 37 enzyme had been unleashed on the world .
Shirley was the one who was all too happy to talk about her first run-in with a rogue .
They all had stories now , but Shirley took a special delight in it , as though it were a badge of honour displaying how ballsy she was .
“Car crash , ” Shirley would say , her words sliding over her big , white teeth .
“Walked out from underneath that crunched up car with most of his face missing and his right hand mashed up to a pulp and flattened out like a big pita bread .
Pedestrian versus Hummer , that 's what the cop said .
Before that poor soul got up and started walking they were getting ready to scoop him off the road with a spatula .
He walked pretty close to me , he did , and I could see his lips moving , wrong place though they were .
Do you know how weird it is , seeing someone 's lips moving across their mashed up forehead ? ” Frankie shuddered at the memory of Shirley 's voice , the mixture of secretive glee within it making her sick .
It had all been a horrible awakening .
While the initial outbreak was contained within a month , the invention of Osmosis 37 had left a terrible legacy for those left living .
Appetites could n't be appeased no matter how many pounds of raw meat was fed to the hungry hordes of the Happy Restful arena .
Most of it was beef in origin , but Frankie was n't so naive to believe this was the only meat rendered .
When a blue light lit over the twitching remains of some body too far gone to repair , they were ground up and fed to their fellow groaners .
A cycle that was a strange , oblong circle of death .
It’s like they’re breeding.” She stretched out her arm to encompass the potter’s field before them .
“They ain’t satisfied with the blood of the dead no more.” Uncle Jack nodded and smiled in his friendliest manner , then slowly edged away from the girl .
He tripped on another piece of rock the same dark , glinting color as the one the girl had pitched away .
She rushed toward him , but stopped when she reached the stone .
She knelt and paid him no more attention as she got to work clawing that one out of the ground too .
Several of these stones , each subtly but clearly different from the rest , littered the graveyard .
She had quite a task ahead of her if she meant to purge them all .
He made his way back toward the gates , leaving the rock-crazy girl to her obsession .
The Edensorrow plot comprised the entire southwest corner of the graveyard from the front gates all the way to the hearse road that ran along the far west wall .
Coming or going , living or dead , the Edensorrows still bore witness to the happenings of the townsfolk .
It was the only place in the whole graveyard where the trees still grew nearby .
In fact part of the perimeter wall had collapsed under the incursion of the roots of a particularly large tree .
A slender obelisk dominated the Edensorrow plot , a masterful sculpture draped with a realistically carved cloth trimmed with tassels at the corners and some kind of raised pattern on it .
The stone drapery looked so very real , as if a stiff wind might whip it from its perch and blow it away , tassels flapping .
A low concrete wall with finials at the corners surrounded the six generations of Edensorrows that had lived in Stewartsville , and adjacent plots held scores of in-laws and cousins and close family friends .
His place was in the upper right corner of the main plot .
His mother , Elinore Edensorrow Harker , was a direct descendant of the line and had therefore been awarded a coveted place “within the walls , ” as she liked to say .
Her husband , Percy Harker III , had been laid to rest beside her but just on the other side of the divider .
We acknowledge you but you weren’t one of us .
Uncle Jack couldn’t care less if the place reserved for him , the last of the line , was never filled .
He wanted no part of that cursed place and had tried to keep his parents from being buried there , but his mother had added a clause to her will stating that it was her desire to be placed with her blood relations and that her son’s opinions on the matter were not to be considered .
Uncle Jack decided not to stop and kneel at his mother’s grave .
With the darkness falling quicker than usual and the strange girl’s ranting and digging , he was in no mood to linger .
He touched his mother’s granite headstone with tenderness as he passed , stepping carefully over the low wall to place a hand on his father’s marker before making straight for the gates and his waiting truck .
As he jounced down the rutted road back into town , he saw flashlight beams shining across the pitted lawn from the large old mansion that served the dual function of funeral parlor and groundskeepers’ quarters .
Someone might have hollered at him to stop , but Uncle Jack sang along to his radio and pretended not to hear .
He figured their poor , deranged daughter couldn’t have gotten herself into too much trouble up in the potter’s field , and they’d easily find her .
The sidewalks were mostly rolled up by the time Uncle Jack came back through downtown , only the bars and the diner were still open , though both were practically empty .
Any other night that Uncle Jack was procrastinating an unpleasant task , he might have moseyed on into Shooter’s for a beer and a game of pool , but tonight he stayed on task .
There’d be time for beer and pool later , he hoped .
The parking lot of the church was full .
Some folks had even parked on the lawn , so Uncle Jack found himself a not too terribly inconvenient spot on Tulip Poplar Lane , the side street that ran behind the church and over into the wealthy part of town .
All the lights were on inside the church and the large community room adjacent to it .
Through the tall , narrow windows , Uncle Jack could see everyone inside but he looked for two people in particular : Bethany and Promise .
Only eight months had passed since he’d last seen them , but eight months between three-and-a-half and four-and-a-quarter might as well have been years .
When Promise stepped into view , he almost didn’t recognize the child , she’d grown so much .
Her hair had taken on a bit of a curl and her long and skinny limbs advertised a recent growth spurt .
He ached to go inside and take Promise into his arms and spin her around until she squealed .
He had at first loved her solely because he loved her mother , but Promise Goodstead was a true sweetheart and there was no one in this world that Uncle Jack loved more than her .
Which was why he went instead immediately to the church’s graveyard with his little notebook already in hand .
The Goodstead mausoleum had not been simply moved , but , according to local lore and legend , dismantled stone by stone and reconstructed into a modern , elegant , and ugly edifice that stood in awkward grandeur amid the modest grave markers in the church’s cemetery .
Reverend Goodstead the elder had wanted to make sure everyone knew who shepherded the flock in Stewartsville .
The moon rose , spilling silvery light across the neatly cropped lawn .
No crabgrass or cursed trees grew here .
All the same , an unsettling feeling permeated the place .
And , he realized , that he smelled the same tangy , acrid scent of the dirt he had noticed at the Town Cemetery .
He went boldly to the mausoleum and peered in though the slender doors with their leaded glass windows .
Inside was nothing more than dull , white marble drawers along each side and at the far end one of the angels from the original structure crying into her hands .
The markers along the walls were primarily 20th century dates , recently dead relations .
But on the floor were the old headstones cropped and laid side by side in a mosaic that dated back to the founding of the town .
And between each one were slivers of dark , ugly stone like the kind the teenage dingbat in the Town Cemetery had been throwing .
In some places , it seemed ground into the mortar and in others just crammed in however it might fit .
A strange tribute , bringing the rock down from the other cemetery and placing it here .
Probably not at all accidental .
He wanted a better look .
Uncle Jack rummaged in his coat pockets and withdrew his flashlight .
Before he could switch it on , movement in the deep shadows between the mausoleum and the church building caught his eye .
He froze .
“I’m assuming you have an explanation , Jack.” He reveled in the sound of her voice , even as venom-tipped as it was .
“Bethy , ” he sighed in relief .
“Is that you ? ” She looked to her left and to her right and placed her hands on her hips .
“You seeing anyone else out here ? ” “No , but that don’t mean nothing.” He pocketed the notebook .
“Is there somewhere we can talk ? ” “Not here , I don’t want Promise to see you .
I’ll never hear the end of it if she thinks you’re really in town.” “But Bethy…” “After .
I’ll send her home with Daddy , and you and I can chat over coffee at the diner .
Just stay out of sight until then .
She’s already asked too many questions of the damned gossip-mongers.” Bethany turned on her heel and walked directly back into the community room .
Uncle Jack watched her go , wanting very much to follow .
Instead , he flicked on his flashlight and got out his notebook .
He made careful notes about the stones and recorded the exchange with the caretaker’s girl .
The pieces were finally beginning to fit together .
The moon moved behind some clouds and darkness edged in around his solitary flashlight beam .
The noise of chatter and guitar strumming from the community room seemed much too far away all of a sudden .
The whisper of vertigo returned .
Uncle Jack decided to wait in his truck .
At long last , most of the congregation had dispersed .
He watched Promise get into her grandfather’s car and disappear into the tree-lined shadows of Maplewood Drive , just off of Tulip Poplar and a few blocks from the church .
Bethany had stayed behind to close up .
She was taking an awfully long time .
Flooded with curiosity and a fair bit of worry , Uncle Jack got out of his truck and made his way back to the church .
The sanctuary itself was dark , and only a few lights remained on in the community room .
He heard a voice coming from the corridor that connected the two buildings .
Gertrude Goodstead , Bethany’s elderly maiden aunt , leaned heavily on her cane as she made her slow way toward the exit .
She murmured to herself in a long , incoherent line of syllables .
Gertrude had been uncharitable to Uncle Jack , but she had been downright vicious toward Promise because the girl had been born out of wedlock and this was , as one might guess , no way to curry favor with Uncle Jack .
Still , he approached the old lady and would be civil to her , just like his mother taught him to be .
Gertrude had always favored her left leg , but this evening her limp was far more pronounced .
She all but dragged her bad leg behind her , and as she drew closer Uncle Jack could see that her knee was bandaged ; the hem of her skirt had been pinned up so it wouldn’t irritate the wound .
He also saw that Gertrude , who had been a nurse nearly all her life at the tiny town hospital , wore her starched white cap , crisp pinafore-style uniform dress , and a navy blue cloak .
The cloak hung awkwardly from one shoulder and swayed as she shambled toward him .
The woman was ancient and crone-like and Uncle Jack had never really liked her , even before Promise .
She said nothing to Uncle Jack—she merely paused in her halting walk toward the door and stared at him , hard .
Her grey eyes were as shrewd and as cruel as ever , and her mouth formed the same self-righteous frown it had the last time he had seen her .
“Good evening , Miss Gertrude , ” he said .
“It’s a pleasure to see you again.” Gertrude made no immediate reply , she only shifted her weight , bracing against her cane .
Uncle Jack saw the bandage around her knee shift and slide a bit .
“Are you hurt , ma’am ?
Can I call Bethy for you ? ” Gertrude’s head snapped up and she might have growled , or perhaps simply cursed at him under her breath .
“No one needs or wants your help , John Harker .
You should never have come back here.” “If you’ll forgive me , ma’am , I simply…” “No , I do not forgive you .
Interestingly , they all seemed to have similar last names to the inspectors .
I was fast learning the peccadillos and intrigues of a small town .
Now , with the frustrations of a slow start still lingering in my head and the frigid wind stirring the darkness , I walked down to the worker 's campers on what we had come to call the lower side , I wondered which of the three men the figure on the hill had looked more like .
Enrico Torres was too small to have been the man I saw .
He was a hard working Mexican who I had come to trust because of his extensive work laying water lines for a local landscaper .
He had come to work for me because I was paying a dollar an hour more .
When I had suggested that the landscaper would be there later and that my work would end someday , he just smiled at me and said he believed I would always need him for something .
He knew a little bit about everything including maintenance on the tractor , which I was totally ignorant of .
He had spent the first Saturday he worked for me going over the tractor reversing all the neglect I had been giving it for my first two months .
Enrico had a friend named Juan Sanchez who was just as hard a worker if not as well versed in all the things that Enrico could do .
He was taller than Enrico but still his build was not as large as the man I saw looking down on me from the rise .
But I knew that light could play tricks on the eyes at night .
The figure did have that solid , immovable stance that I had often noted about Juan .
Still , it was n't quite a Juan stance .
Dave Morgan was an out of work construction laborer who had a problem working with my two Mexican employees at first but had quickly come around when he saw that they did their part .
He had proven to be a great asset when the electrician was here because he got the man to allow us to do more of the work before he came in and signed off on it .
I had no idea that I could do most of the electrical work myself and then just allow the electrician to actually hook the power up .
That really cut my costs as far as the electrician 's time .
Dave is plenty big like the man I saw on the hill but something about the figure I saw on the hill did not remind me totally of Dave , either .
The way he stood was all wrong .
I never saw Dave stand with such a front lean to him that he seemed almost ready to topple over .
The figure seemed older , too , somehow .
I just could n't explain the things I thought I saw in the brief encounter .
But I saw something that was different .
Of that I was sure .
By the time I got down to the lower side , I was convinced I had an intruder on the property .
Nothing else made sense .
But why had the man stood and watched me and not tried to hide ?
That made no sense .
Suddenly I had my first sense of being totally alone out here in the woods .
I walked the last few yards to the worker 's campers looking over my shoulder and behind every tree for someone who did not belong there .
The blackness of the night hindered my vision any deeper than a few feet off the roadway , through the trees .
A whole army could have been hiding in those trees for all I could see .
I checked the campers but they were dark and empty .
I turned on the lights in each as I checked it just so I could feel the assurance of light in all the darkness around me .
I was getting spooked by the darkness and being alone out here in the woods .
Thinking I had seen someone who was also hiding from me for some reason was not helping at all .
As I turned off the lights in the last camper , I closed the door and thought I heard a sound in the woods back towards my camper .
I wondered if maybe a homeless man had found my campground and was trying to take up residence when I was n't looking .
As I walked back to my camper , I had to smile to myself at all the thoughts of intruders that floated across my imagination .
I was getting paranoid , I told myself .
Still , I pulled the sleeves of my sweater down further onto my hands against the cold of the night air aware that it was not only the night air that sent that chill up my spine .
Back in my camper , I turned up the electric heater and poured myself another cup of coffee .
The workers would not be back until Monday morning and I planned on catching up on some reading I had been putting off .
I told myself that with all the work I needed to do , reading was unproductive .
Well , this weekend I was going to be very unproductive .
All I planned to do was read , eat and drink coffee to ward off the cold .
I knew I would wander the campground a couple times , but I was determined to not do any work this weekend .
It was time I stopped making excuses for working and get back to assembling a normal life for myself .
I had not really relaxed since I got here .
My dad had passed away while I was in college .
A hard working minister in our local church , what I remember most about him was how he was always doing something for someone else .
My mom , afraid that I would become rootless after college and because my dad was not around anymore , now saw it as her duty to find me a wife to spend my life with and put down roots of my own .
She kept quoting the scripture that it is not good for man to be alone .
Like that was all that needed to be said .
It was another of the reasons I moved to my current location , to distance myself from my mother 's overshadowing presence .
She means well but sometimes a man just wants some freedom .
I lived at home with my parents and then I lived in a dorm with a hundred other guys .
I wanted a little time to live by myself .
I had that now .
I had gone to a religious university because my dad was a minister and the costs were lower for minister 's kids .
The education was first rate but I had purposely gotten a degree in business to separate myself from any thought of a ministerial line of work .
I was not going to be a preacher .
I had seen how my dad had struggled year after year .
I was not going to give my life to people who just kept taking more and more until there is nothing left .
That 's how I viewed my dad 's death .
It was n't the cancer that got him .
It was the giving of himself .
In the end he gave away so much of himself that he had nothing left for himself .
So he died .
He had been a big man but every year I had watched as his minister 's life ate away at him .
Between the cancer and the ministry , he barely weighed a hundred pounds when he died .
Every time I thought of my dad , I remembered the scripture that said , 'no greater love could a man show than to give his life for another . '
Well , he loved them to death .
His .
I sipped my coffee and opened my book putting the paranoid adventure of my evening out of my mind as best I could .
If it was a homeless guy , I hoped he had the sense to turn the heater on in the camper .
I had left them unlocked .
We never locked them .
It was too cold out tonight for anyone to sleep outside .
As I read my book , I thought someone else was in the room but when I looked up I saw nothing .
It was not anything solid that I saw .
No shape on the periphery of my vision .
Just a sense that I was not alone .
I began wondering if my senses were getting jammed with all my paranoia .
Maybe I had heard something that made me think I was not alone .
I put the book down and went to the door .
I threw the door wide despite the escaping heat and looked around outside but could see nothing in the darkness .
The moon had gone behind some clouds and everything was dark and black now .
I turned on the camper outside lights and walked around the camper .
When I completed my circuit I climbed back up on my deck .
That was when I noticed it .
There at the edge of the deck was a definite lump of something just far enough from the light to make it indistinguishable .
It was small and blob like .
No real form .
Just a blob .
I half expected it to get up and run away .
I have no idea what I was thinking because my brain had stopped processing rational information .
My deck had been clean earlier .
I had not left anything on it .
You are to record everything that happens tonight .
It will be a very special night.” Rick handed me a large black notebook and a silver pen , then turned to open the doors .
The first hour was slow but by nine o’clock people started to enter the café .
Rick was right ; all sorts of monsters entered the café that night .
I saw four Draculas , two werewolves , a few Michael Myers and even Little Boo Peep stopped by for a visit .
All I could think was that no one was going to read this story .
Around eleven a group of people entered the café .
They were all dressed like they were going to a ball at Bela Lugosi’s house .
Rick came out of his office and kissed the gloved hand of a tall man dressed in a tuxedo .
The man nodded to Rick as he handed him his cane , cape and top hat .
Rick motioned to a corner of the café .
The man held out his arm to the woman on his right then turned to his left and held up his other arm .
Both women smiled as they each took hold of him .
“Who are those people ? ” I whispered to myself .
“That was Mortakie with his mother Helena and his love Eraina.” Sarah said making me jump .
“So which is which ? ” “Helena has the blond hair and Eraina the brown.” Thomas finished .
Nodding I looked at my watch , it was close to midnight .
The last person to enter that night was a tall man about 6’3 with a long black leather trench coat .
He was dressed all in black with brown spiky hair .
His face was covered in a thick five o’clock shadow .
His eyes swept over the café , examining everyone in it as he walked over to the counter .
The man sat on one of the stools and kept looking around .
I turned to got tell Rick but he was already standing next to me , staring at the man .
The man didn’t look at Rick ; he was too busy staring at Mortakie with an immense hatred in his eyes .
Rick grabbed my arm and led me into his office .
“Devilynn , remain here and do not open this door until I come for you.” “Why ? ” Rick didn’t answer me ; he just left .
I ran to the door but it was locked .
I kicked the door in frustration and walked over to Rick’s desk .
Grabbing the metal chair I heaved it over to the corner where there was a vent .
Mr. Morris used to look at the café through here to see if anyone was goofing off from time to time .
The man remained seated as he glanced at his watch every now and then .
Mortakie and his crew stared at him .
Their eyes were glowing red and mine must have been tired because I had to be imagining it .
Rick was by the counter with Thomas , Sarah was by the door , Rosella was standing near the man and Miranda was by the far left corner .
The bells from the nearby church rung , it was midnight .
At first chime the man stood and opened his trench coat .
By the second chime he had pulled out a crossbow and began shooting at random .
One arrow pierced a woman’s heart , another a man’s leg and the third struck Sarah in the arm .
As the man reloaded Sarah locked the door , Rosella jumped behind the counter and pulled the dark drape away from the mirror .
The man turned toward Mortakie’s direction and took aim but Miranda was already in front of him .
She hissed through clenched fangs as she snapped the crossbow in two .
The man’s eyes widened .
Rick jumped over the counter and grabbed the man by his neck .
I looked at the exposed mirror to see that there were only ten reflections in it .
Two of those reflections were of the people the man had shot .
I watched as the humans tried to escape the café only to be feasted on by the vampires that entered with Mortakie .
Flesh was torn and blood splattered across the walls .
Bones crunched and necks fell limp , as they were broken .
After the carnage of the innocence was over , the vampires turned their attention to the man Rick still held in his grasp .
The vampires , including Rick , one by one turned into black shadows .
They chased the man as he ran through the café looking for a way to escape .
The shadows grabbed at him as they pierced parts of his body with their fangs .
The blood dripped from his open wounds as he stopped in the middle of the café .
“All right you bastards !
Kill me !
That’s what you want but I swear that there are others who will come and hunt you down .
The slayers shall not stop till all of you are laid to rest forever ! ” The shadows turned into bats and attacked the man .
Screeches from the bats muffled the screams of the man .
The café was silent as all the bats returned to human form .
There was only a white lifeless corpse where the man once stood .
The vampires sat down at their tables .
Sarah , Thomas , Rosella and Miranda dragged dead bodies over to various tables where the vampires continued to feast .
The door opened and Rick walked in .
I stared at him in disbelief and pure disgust ; there was blood covering his face and it stained his white shirt .
Rick walked over and raised his hand .
Shaking I took it as he helped me off of the chair .
He smiled at me ; his blue eyes glinted with pleasure .
“Now do not look so shocked .
I trust you read the book I gave you ? ” I nodded .
“Well then , you must realize that this is how we live Devilynn ?
You should get back to writing this down while it is still fresh in your mind.” Rick finished and left the office .
It took me awhile to regain my composure .
I was not too sure of what I saw or believed what I saw for that matter .
I remained in the office till after two .
In that time I wrote down everything as vividly as I pictured it .
“Are we finished yet ?
I am quite interested in reading your first draft.” I looked up at Rick .
The blood on his shirt was dry .
I nodded and gathered my things .
As I tried to leave the office Rick blocked my way .
“Please move.” “Now Devilynn , there is no need for hostility.” Rick smiled .
I looked into his eyes and began to feel faint .
Rick closed the door and motioned me to sit .
“I rather stand.” “Again , there is no need for hostility.” “Try fear , Rick.” “What do you mean ? ” “You and me used to be close before you left .
I mean you wrote to me all the time and then you stopped .
Now you come back as Dracula’s son and…I mean what the hell was I looking at tonight ?
Was all this real or just a sick joke ?
What are you ? ” “Sit .
I owe you an explanation.” Rick said as he put his hand on my shoulder .
Reluctantly I sat and listened to Rick’s year in England .
He spent a lot of time at clubs , drinking and sleeping with many women .
That’s how he met Rosella and Miranda at an after hours club .
They spent the night talking to him about the darkness and how wonderful it was .
Rick thought they were on some serious drugs and admired their high .
The girls squealed when a tall dark haired man entered with two females by his side .
It was Mortakie .
“Eraina was the one who turned me .
I did not fight her when she bit me but embraced it because I felt somewhere deep inside me that it was right .
I am a vampire now , not fiction .
There was not one moment I did not think about you .
Mehen called his legions and gave them their orders to find the names on the list and kill them .
Once he sent his minions out he would receive a report from each group once their task was completed .
The killing of the names on the list began almost within the hour .
By the time two hours had passed fifteen of the names on the list had been killed .
Because the killings took place all over the world no one had put together the fact that they had all been travelers that had all been to the same locations that Ryan had been to .
By midnight all but five groups of the demons that Mehen had dispatched to do his bidding had returned .
He waited somewhat patiently for the remaining five groups of demons to report .
One by one the remaining groups sent a demon back to Mehen to report that their target was traveling and they were trying to locate them .
Mehen was furious that they could not be found .
Cimeries found Robert asleep in a chair with his TV on , Cimeries kicked the chair to wake Robert up .
He stirred a little and Cimeries kicked the chair again and said , “wake up Robert I need your services again.” Robert woke and pulled his gun not realizing it was Cimeries standing before him .
Cimeries took the gun from Robert’s hand before he could fire it .
“Now is that any way to greet a friend ? ” “Sorry I was still in a wakeup fog and didn’t realize it was you .
“Cimeries it is going to take me a couple of hours to get the information.” “You don’t have a couple of hours.” “Let me see what I can come up with.” Robert sat down at his computer and typed in the commands to check the five names that Cimeries gave him .
It took about thirty minutes to get the answers , one went to Rome , one went to Turkey , one went to Orlando and two went to Kuwait .
Robert took the results from the printer and handed them to Cimeries who took them .
Before Robert could say anything Cimeries was gone .
Cimeries made the trip back to his world and found Mehen and provided the update information of the five travelers .
Mehen immediately dispatched his minions to the locations .
***** Ryan and Maria landed in Kuwait and picked up their rental a car and drove to their hotel .
They checked in and went to get some lunch at the hotel restaurant .
“You know Maria I am struggling with this assignment , I was raised to never harm a woman .
It seems as though that all of the fallen one this time are going to be females.” “I understand that but remember that these fallen are evil and have turned their back on the lords way .
They are not what I would call a woman .
They finished their meal and Ryan spotted a demon at the front desk , to the desk clerk the demon looked like any other human .
They got on the elevator and Ryan watched as the floors clicked off and stop on the seventh floor .
He had the elevator to himself so he called the Angel sword to him , the sword appeared in his hand and he made ready to use it .
The elevator reached the seventh floor and he got off the elevator he walked to his room and found the door ajar .
He pushed the door open the rest of the way and stepped into the room .
He spotted the ten demons talking and he said , “Can I help you ? ” The demons looked at Ryan and started towards him .
Ryan held the sword behind his back so the demons could not see it and when they got close enough to Ryan he brought the sword up and cut the head off of the three closest demons .
The remaining demons tried to stay back from Ryan as they did not want to meet the fate of their brothers .
Ryan moved closer to them as they backed up and swung the sword and killed two more demons .
One of the demons decided to leap at Ryan and he easily side stepped the leap and brought the sword down across the demons neck and watched as the demons head rolled away from its body until it erupted into flame and disappeared .
Ryan kept himself between the door and the demons so they would have to go thru him to escape .
As each demon tried to move to the door he would cut the head off of that demon .
There was only one demon left and it was the one that he first saw at the front desk .
“Who sent you ?
Answer me and I may let you live.” “My lord Mehen sent me , we are to destroy you.” “Why is that ? ” “Because you are the Angel slayer.” “Well guess what , I also slay demons , ” and Ryan brought the sword around and cut the demons head off .
Ryan put the sword away and went back downstairs to rejoin Maria , as he stepped out of the elevator two things caught his eye .
First the delivery man was there with his boxes and he also saw a large group of demons outside the front door of the hotel .
He signaled Maria to join him as he walked to the delivery man .
“Sir come with me I want to put my boxes in my car.” “Very well sir.” The delivery man said .
The three of them went to the elevator and rode down to the parking garage .
They walked to the SUV that they rented and the delivery man placed the boxes in the back of the SUV .
Once all the boxes were loaded Ryan tipped the man and he started to open the boxes .
He found the MAC-10’s and loaded them , he took ten extra magazines for the two assault rifles and placed them in the front seat of the SUV .
He closed the back of the SUV and he and Maria drove out of the parking garage and move slowly towards the group of demons still at the front door of the hotel .
Maria stopped the SUV in the street and Ryan yelled , “Hey you ugly old boys , here I am come and get me.” Maria sped away and Ryan watched as the demons took chase after them .
Maria reached the outskirts of Kuwait City and drove into the desert and the demons followed them .
They had gone about five miles into the desert and because the speed she could safely make allowed the demons to start to close in she stopped the SUV and she and Ryan got out and moved to the front of the SUV .
Using the bulk of the SUV as cover , when the demons were in range both Maria and Ryan opened fire with the MAC-10’s Although Maria didn’t like guns she was a good shot and working with Ryan she was becoming an expert shot .
The two of them were dropping the demons like flies , by the time they had reloaded for the third time there were only a handful of demons left .
They decided that they had had enough and turned and fled .
The demons decided that they would go back and report to their master Mehen that they had found the Angel Slayer but had not been able to kill him .
They would need help .
Ryan and Maria got back into the SUV and Ryan told Maria to head to Babylon .
That was the first place he wanted to start looking for Lilith .
He was pretty sure there would be clues there .
CHAPTER FOUR “The site of the ancient city of Babylon is now known as Hilliah in what we now call Iraq .
There isn’t really a lot of the old city left , wars throughout the century’s have destroyed most of what was there .
What do you think we can find there ? ” Asked Maria .
“I’m not really sure but all the information we have says that Lilith was prominent in this area .
It says she was all but a god in Babylon , There has to still be some reference about her.” When Ryan and Maria arrived at the ruins of the old city of Babylon they were surprised to see just how little of the city remained .
They spoke with some of the locals and they told them that the site of what was the summer palace of the president is where the old temple use to be .
The palace was now open to the public for tours , an old man told them for a few Dinar he would show them a tunnel that led to the remains of the old temple .
Ryan pulled a Twenty dollar bill out and handed it to the old man and he took them to a spot about a quarter mile from the old palace .
There he showed them a small cave and he went into the cave followed by Maria and Ryan .
The cave was dark and damp and Ryan took the small penlight he carried and turned it on .
Inside the cave there were many drawings on the walls , Ryan was surprised that archeologists were not swarming the cave .
The old man told them that the locals kept this place from the government to preserve their history .
The went deeper into the cave and came to a tunnel that was smooth walled and looked like it had not been used in hundreds of years .
They followed the tunnel for what seemed like miles and it finally opened up into a large cavern .
The walls of the cavern again were covered with drawings and as Ryan and Maria were looking over the drawings when Ryan found some drawings that were about a woman .
He called Maria and the old man over and he asked the man about the drawings .
In broken English the man told them about the Queen that lived in the temple , her name was Lilith .
The old man told them legend said she was an evil Queen that had many men to help her have many children .
Ryan listened intently as the man continued telling about Queen Lilith .
After about an hour of the history lesson the old man showed them the entrance to the temple remains .
The old man told them he would not go into the temple and he would leave them here .
Ryan took out another two twenty dollar bills and handed them to the man .
The old man thanked him and turned and left back the way they had came .
The entrance to the temple was an old stone door that had not been opened in a very long time .
Ryan was surprised at how easy the door opened , Maria and Ryan moved thru the door and into another tunnel that again was smoothed walled but was void of any kind of markings .
They followed the tunnel for several hundred feet and it opened into a large room filled with old pottery that was still intact .
There was a set of stairs carved into the rock that led up , they climbed the stairs that seemed to rise about fifty feet and they entered into what appeared to be sleeping quarters .
All of the furniture was in pristine condition and the bed looked like it had been recently used .
The hairs on the back of Ryan’s neck stood up indicating that there was someone there that was either a demon or a fallen .
“Ryan whispered to Maria “we are not alone , I can’t tell if it is a fallen or demon yet.” They quietly moved closer to the opening that entered into the sleeping quarters , standing there was a female fallen and a male demon .
They were discussing some list of names .
The female was demanding who else had the list .
Almost everyone on the list she said had been killed .
There were a few names that had not been located yet .
The female was threatening to kill the demon if he continued to lie to her .
The demon pulled out some papers and handed them to the female .
“One of the people on this list is the slayer .
She hands me the brush and paint ; the tin is all crusted round the edges .
“Why do I want these ? ” I ask .
“It’s your insane idea.” “But you’re going to do it , ” she tells me .
“Because you’re so much bigger and stronger than me.” She stifles a giggle – I may be taller than she is , but she’d probably beat me in an arm wrestle , and she knows it .
I sigh , taking the paint upstairs .
I tell myself I really need to stop letting her boss me around .
She follows ; I pretend not to notice her smug expression .
A moment later , I’m hanging out my bedroom window , the laden brush dripping in my hand .
The droplets make crimson stains on the snow beneath my window .
Even without looking , I can tell she’s laughing at my ridiculous appearance .
I swipe a line across the side of the house , just above the drift’s highest tip .
“There .
Happy now ? ” I ask , watching droplets trickle down from the mark .
They freeze before they even hit the snow .
“Mm hm , ” she says .
I haul myself back through the window , noticing that she’s still trying not to laugh .
Most likely this whole stunt was just some scheme constructed exclusively to make me look like an idiot .
For all I know , she took multiple pictures which will be going up on Facebook as soon as the Internet is working again .
But I can’t be mad at her .
I never can .
By nighttime , the sky is perfectly clear .
We can see the stars the way you only see them this far north ; pinpoints of pure , burning light , so bright and so clear and so many .
We both know what that means , and sure enough , when we wake the next morning , the top layer of snow has frozen hard .
“This means we can get out , ” I say , pleased .
“Without sinking , I mean .
Maybe I can find someone to help us with the water.” “Rather you than me , ” she says , shuddering .
“At least wear something sensible so you don’t freeze to death.” I take her advice , putting on all the ski clothing I can find – thermals and a jacket and a hat and furry gloves that make me look like Bigfoot .
Then I clamber inelegantly out of my bedroom window .
I sink a couple of feet , but I manage to fight my way down to the road , where it’s not so deep .
I’ve been struggling through the snow for maybe five minutes when I notice someone standing waist-deep at the roadside .
It’s a small hunched figure in a heavy brown jacket , with grey hair scraped back into a tight bun , and wrinkled mahogany skin .
I slow my pace , recognizing her as Ahnah .
Ahnah is an Inuit , wandered a little too far south .
She’s been in St. Catherine as long as I can remember , though no-one really seems to know why she’s here .
She lives in a tiny house right on the outskirts of town , all by herself , and as far as I know she’s perfectly harmless .
She does scare me a little , though .
I have a sinking feeling that I won’t get up the hill without speaking to her .
“Ah , Seth Campbell , ” she says , noticing me .
“I admire you for venturing outside .
You are both brave and foolish.” I don’t know how to react to that , so I stay quiet .
She looks like a hunched raven , or maybe a vulture , utterly at home in the snowy landscape .
It doesn’t seem to matter that I’m not contributing to the conversation – she can carry it on all by herself .
“I have bad feelings about this snowfall , ” she tells me , as her shrewd eyes look me up and down .
“Terrible feelings .
And my feelings are very reliable.” “Is that so ? ” I ask , wishing I’d bumped into someone else .
Anyone else would have been preferable .
I’m all too familiar with Ahnah’s doom-and-gloom predictions .
“It is indeed , ” she says solemnly , before turning away from me .
Thankfully , this appears to signal the end of the conversation .
I attempt to pick up my pace , which turns out to be easier said than done .
If I jog , it normally takes me less than ten minutes to get to Ria’s , but today it’s almost twice that before I begin to climb the Lawrences’ drive .
The little wooden house is barely visible , a picture postcard gone mad .
Will Lawrence is out the front , attempting to clear a path to the door .
“Hey , Seth , ” he says , evidently surprised to see me .
“You got out , then ? ” I nod .
“Just about .
We’re in a spot of trouble , though – the water’s not working , and Mom and Dad are out of town .
I’ve no idea what to do about it .
We had to use bottled water yesterday , but we don’t have enough to get us through another day.” He looks at me with concern .
“Hardly surprising .
I’ve never seen so much snow in all my life .
I’ll come down and give you a hand later on , if I can , but there’s not much I can do if the pipes have burst.” “Thanks , ” I say .
“I guess Ria’s in ? ” He smiles .
“Yeah , they’re all in the kitchen .
Go on in.” The Lawrences’ front door opens straight into their cosy kitchen , which has a giant wood stove that heats the whole house .
It’s too small for five people , but that doesn’t seem to matter .
All four kids are in the kitchen – Eli in the corner with a cigarette , on vacation from college ; Blanche , the only non-redhead , lying on the floor with a laptop ; Albert doing a jigsaw at the table .
And Ria , of course , stood next to the stove , smiling at me as I come in .
“You’re all covered in snow , ” she laughs .
“Even your face.” “Shut up , ” I say affectionately .
“You all OK ? ” “We’re fine , ” Ria says .
“Except we’re driving each other crazy.” Will sticks his head round the door , waving his cell .
“Kids , I just got a call from Anthony Miller .
There’s some sort of meeting going on down the hall in half an hour’s time , to discuss all this.” He gestures at the ridiculous quantities of snow in the yard .
“If you want to go , you better set out now or you won’t get there in time.” “What do you think , shall we go ? ” I ask the room in general .
“I’m going , ” says Blanche , jumping to her feet .
Ria nods her assent .
Eli is as unresponsive as ever , absorbed in some car magazine – I know he’ll stay here .
Albert’s clinging onto Blanche’s hand , so I guess we’re stuck with him too .
“Never heard of anyone calling a meeting because of the weather , ” I say to Ria , closing the door behind me .
The kids have already run on ahead , falling and laughing in the snow .
“Nor me , ” she says , “but usually , we know we can handle it .
I’m not so sure we can cope with it this time.” She has a point .
How many other people are without running water and electricity , unable either to get out or to phone for help ?
I remember the strange one-sided conversation I had on the way to the Lawrences’ .
“Ran into Ahnah on my way here , ” I say .
Ria and I often get a kick out of her so-called prophecies .
“What’s in store for us this time ? ” she asks .
“End of the world ?
Rains of scorpions ? ” I shrug .
“Not sure what she was talking about .
Something about the snowfall bringing bad things.” “Sounds about right , ” she smiles , giving me a shove .
It’s supposed to be playful , but I lose my balance in the deep snow and fall right into a drift .
She doubles up with laughter ; she and Pip are cut from the same cloth all right .
I reach for her ankle and pull her down after me .
We just lie there , soaked through and covered in snow and laughing our heads off .
Ahead of us , Blanche turns round and yells at us to hurry up .
I take Ria’s hand and we struggle to our feet , still laughing .
When we arrive at the hall , twenty minutes later , I’m surprised by the crowds of people milling around on the steps outside .
Looks like everyone is pretty worried about this – everyone except the kids .
He could sense the presence of them all .
He knew they could sense him as well .
Ever so gently he began to turn with the cloud of sand .
One step at a time .
Then two .
Eventually , he matched the speed of the cloud surrounding him .
Eventually he became one with the movement , with the sound , with the sand .
Electric .
That was how he had tried to explain it to others once .
They had laughed but they had never felt it .
Like being with someone you loved , it lifted you up somehow .
It energized him .
It energized him now .
The slow drain of his day was washing away inside the cloud of whirling particles .
All that the world had taken away from him was being given back .
The Sand replenished .
The Sand made it good again .
Opening his mouth Lucius allowed several grains of the sand to enter in .
He tasted of them and loved them as they made their way inside him .
He released himself to them and gave them complete control .
That was where the energy came from .
The Sand had it .
The Sand shared it with him when he shared himself with the Sand .
With the energy came a reason for the energy .
There was no sense having energy if he was not going to use it .
The Sand had taught him that .
And the Sand had much to do .
Because he loved the sand , he had much to do .
They were kindred spirits now .
They were one .
As quickly as the storm of sand had risen it dissipated .
Though the cloud was gone he still felt its presence .
That was another thing the Sand taught him .
When he was energized he was more aware of the presence .
Ordinary people could not sense it because they were too tired , too busy , too preoccupied with themselves .
Ordinary people spent their day trying to figure new ways to use up their energy with purposeless things .
They had no idea of why the energy was wasted on them in the first place .
Only he sensed the presence of the Sand .
It was how he knew he was alive .
The sand had shown him what real living was .
What really being alive was .
Pictures played across his mind as he concentrated on the renewing of the presence within himself .
The taste of the sand was gone from his mouth but the presence was strong in his mind .
He told himself he could feel it .
It was that strong .
There was the picture of a man and a woman this time .
Both were young .
She was pretty .
He was tall and looked like a basketball or football star .
He was sure she was someone important , too .
Sometimes he knew .
Sometimes he did n't .
It did n't matter to him .
All that mattered was the presence .
Feeling it and the energy it brought .
Being one with it .
Everything else was only part of the presence .
The presence was everything .
Noticing the park around him once again , Lucius started moving .
His walk was not aimless now .
He had purpose .
That was another thing the Sand had taught him .
Life without purpose is worthless .
Lucius was not worthless .
The sand gave him purpose .
Every Thursday night he had purpose .
It was Thursday night .
He had something he had to do .
The Sand had taught him that too .
The Sand had so much knowledge .
He owed so much to the Sand .
Time now became important .
Not because it was important to him but because it was important to others .
That importance gave him a window of opportunity .
Ordinary people could be expected to do things according to the way they viewed time .
Unlike Lucius who was part of the Sand and needed no time , no boundaries , ordinary people used time as a tool of their existence .
He pictured a clock and knew the time that he was to meet .
Setting his shoulders for the walk ahead he pushed on out of the park and into the night that surrounded the small city .
The Sand had taught him how to move with the night .
Like a shadow he slipped from building to building and drew no attention despite the small pockets of people he passed .
A clock above a diner showed him how much of the night he had left .
11:25 pm .
Like always he had plenty of time .
It was the ordinary people who never had enough time .
People who filled their time with things just so they could claim to be busy or important or whatever .
Not one of them could explain the importance or the purpose of the things that took up their time .
Most of them spent a lot of their time complaining about the things they felt they HAD to do .
Ordinary people abused time .
Tonight some would have even less time .
That was why they needed Lucius .
He could show them how to get all the time they needed .
Like him they could never worry about time again .
Instead of fighting time by trying to steal large quantities of it they could become one with it and lose themselves in it .
It was part of his purpose .
Lucius walked on .
No one saw him .
No one remembered him .
He moved with the sand of time .
They moved with the time of their own schedules .
Two very different places .
There was something between her and the light , a silhouette that was difficult to make out at first .
As Jane squinted , trying to make it out , the light began to ebb , seeming to retract into itself , and the shape became familiar .
Peter , her husband , kneeling on the ground , his hands placed on something within the light , something cylindrical and metallic .
“Pete ? ” Jane whispered softly .
At the sound of her voice , she saw her husband rise to his feet , turning , and begin to move toward her .
With the light dying away behind him , it was difficult to see until he was close .
Only when he was a few feet away could Jane really see his face , see the eyes bulging in their sockets , blood seeping from the tear ducts .
He was closer still when Jane understood that the man she had loved for over three decades , the gentle , kind man who had treated her like a queen intended to murder her .
So close that when he leapt toward her , snarling , strong fingers grasping for her neck , Jane did n't even have time to flinch .
* The canister , half buried in the earth , cooled in the night air as the last of its power was expended .
The payload delivered , the object had no more use .
Its final act was the release of a drum of acid that it kept in its belly .
It was a quiet sort of suicide .
Chapter 1 Craig Haycock 's head exploded in the extravagantly named Bay restaurant and grill .
It was a controlled demolition , no sign of damage externally .
Inside though , the devastation was catastrophic .
The detonator , a dropped dish – now a constellation of once-white shards on a murky tile floor that owner Ralf Williams always cheerfully deemed `` the colour of life , that is '' – rattled and skittered to a halt , the sharp noise setting Craig 's tender nerves jangling .
He moaned dramatically .
Mainly for effect , given that even this bare minimum of effort was seized on by his pounding head as a sign that , clearly , it needed to step up its efforts to subdue and punish him .
`` God 's sake Ralf , keep it down will you ?
I 'm dying here . ''
Ralf , red-faced and sweating profusely , nodded a breathless apology at his only customer , then frowned as he set to the task of plotting the course he would need to take to navigate around his plentiful gut and down to the floor to clean up the mess .
Cradling his coffee , Craig felt uncannily like he had just kicked a sick puppy , and let out a guilty sigh .
He made a mental note to leave Ralf a healthy tip .
Neither his own raging hangover nor the smashed plate was particularly Ralf 's fault , though the latter had a case that would definitely stand up in court .
The fat man 's clumsiness was innate , and endearing in all honesty .
Ralf liked to joke that he 'd be a Michelin-starred chef if only he could get the food from the oven to the table in one piece .
His regular customers , fully aware that the place was little more than a greasy spoon dressed up in its Sunday best naturally retorted that he had more chance of becoming the Michelin-man .
Craig gulped down a mouthful of near-scalding coffee and felt the caffeine begin to work its magic on his protesting body .
He took a moment to silently curse the strange bond that forms when two people are alone in one space , and slid off the rickety barstool to help clear the shards of porcelain .
`` Take it easy , mate , '' he said to Ralf with a watery grin , as he positioned himself between the gelatinous blur of activity and the remainder of the smashed plate .
`` I 'll sort it out .
Do n't want you getting a heart attack before that bacon 's ready . ''
Craig plucked the dustpan and brush from Ralf 's meaty left hand , and staggered a little when the big man gave him a grateful slap on the shoulder .
Ralf waddled back to the griddle .
Craig had ordered bacon with the coffee , and the aroma was beginning to fill the room , which could seat up to thirty diners , but which usually only seated about five .
The grill was located on the road that led from St. Davids to the picturesque White Sands Bay beach , roughly halfway between the two .
As such it was mainly a base of operations for the town 's small but enthusiastic fishing community , and not much else .
Occasionally travellers stopped in , making their way along to coastal road to nearby Fishguard , which boasted a sizeable ferry port and numerous boats making the short trip across the water to Ireland .
Drawn in ( and some may argue deceived ) by the Bar and grill tag and the promise of a fine meal overlooking the crashing waves of the Irish Channel .
The view was guaranteed , but the café , as the locals obstinately continued to call it , was hardly a fine dining experience .
Not that Craig 's rumbling , gurgling stomach would agree , as the smell of the salty bacon filled his nostrils and made his mouth water .
All depends on your definition of 'fine ' , he thought , as he began to sweep up the broken plate .
Few things are finer than a good bacon butty when you 've spent the best part of the night sat on a tiny trawler in savage , freezing winds only to return home with a handful of worthwhile cod and a half empty bottle of scotch .
`` Good catch last night mate ? ''
Ralf puffed cheerfully , as if reading Craig’s mind .
Craig looked up .
Ralf was still chasing bacon around the griddle .
He could have simply left it to cook of course , but Craig knew that Ralf liked to tend to food as it cooked , whether it was required or not .
Made him feel like a chef .
Had it been anyone else enquiring , Craig would have suspected sarcasm .
The whole town knew that these days his nights were spent plumbing the depths of a bottle , not the freezing sea .
It had been that way since Amy died .
Nearly three years , now .
Shit .
Craig forced a sickly chuckle , and returned his gaze to the last of the mess on the floor .
`` Sea 's drying up Ralf .
My whole catch last night could have just about served us up a decent breakfast , if I trusted you to cook it right . ''
Behind Craig , the door to the café opened and a blast of the the icy Welsh coastal wind eagerly rushed in , undoing all the hard work Ralf 's tiny space heater had put in that morning in a couple of seconds .
Ralf did n't respond , and Craig felt a little pang of guilt again .
Surely the big man knew he was kidding ?
He shot a glance at Ralf .
The fat man , uncharacteristically , was rooted to the spot , eyes fixed on the doorway .
Something about the stony expression on Ralf 's face , normally so convivial , iced up Craig 's veins .
Maybe it was some relic of his days as a proper fisherman , some finely tuned animal instinct bred of a life spent doing battle with the sea , Craig would never know , but even before he turned to face the doorway , the hairs on the back of his neck prickling in silent warning , Craig realised that he was in the presence of death .
When finally he faced the doorway , all of Craig 's instincts deserted him , swept away on a tidal wave of incomprehension .
Standing in the doorway to the Bay restaurant and Grill , framed by gunmetal skies and shrieking wind , was Father Peter Leary .
Twenty years a St. Davids resident .
The man who baptised and married and buried the people .
A man of steely faith and gentle humour .
From his left hand , hair entwined around tightly clutched fingers , hung a severed human head .
* St. Davids , a tiny collection of centuries-old dwellings on the south western tip of Wales , had enjoyed something of a renaissance over the past couple of decades as surfers and second-homers from the home counties descended on the town , drawn towards the rolling waves and low prices .
The main street , once home to numerous local craft shops subsequently became home to a procession of wine bars and would-be fancy restaurants that were forced to close for half the year when much of the population returned to the cities , but the overall feeling of the place remained undiminished .
The influx of seasonal new blood had done little to change the overall demographic .
In the main the residents of St. Davids were either in the middle of their twilight years , or at the very least , seriously considering turning on their headlights .
It was n't that work was hard to come by exactly , but there was little to entice young working families to the area .
A thirty minute commute by car brought the nearby town of Haverfordwest onto the radar , but , not exactly living down the rural moniker itself , the larger town offered little in the way of employment for those concerned with getting the latest Audi or buying a 50 '' Plasma screen TV .
The net result of which was that there were very few young people in St. Davids , fewer children , and those who did attend the tiny local school spent most of their time eagerly counting down the days until they finally reached an age at which they could leave .
All of which meant there was very little crime in St. Davids , which suited Michael Evans , one of the town 's two-strong ( or , as local wags would opine too-strong ) full time police force , very well indeed .
On this particular cold , grey morning , Michael was sitting as usual in one of the town 's two 'squad cars ' , outside his colleague Carl Wilkins ' house , waiting for the older man to appear for his ride to work .
The engine was running , the heater working overtime to keep the freezing air at bay .
Carl , as usual , was late .
Strictly following protocol , of course , Michael and Carl were each meant to pilot a squad car around the streets , but this seemed unnecessarily wasteful and , in any case , no one from further up the chain of Police command had yet bothered to venture this far into the sticks to check whether their memo’s and advisories were actually being implemented .
Michael shivered and pushed the heater up to maximum .
He hated mornings .
Hated the way that each dawn broke the promise of the night before , that tomorrow things would be different .
After two years , he still could not adjust to waking up to an empty house , and heavy , unwelcoming silence .
His morning routine was always a carefully planned rush , a race against time to get to work that left no room for sitting in that silence ; for introspection .
Carl 's steadfast refusal to exit his house on time was ruining that .
Michael reached for his phone , intending to to fill a minute or so by checking for messages that he knew were not waiting for him , when Carl opened the door and flopped into the car with a dramatic `` Brrrrrr '' .
Michael flicked the phone shut , slipping it back into a pocket .
`` Coffee and doughnuts , partner , '' Carl said , in a mock Southern-USA drawl that had n't improved with repetition .
Michael forced a grin , and reached for the thermos Carl offered .
With their work consisting mainly of giving lifts to drunks and resolving occasional half-hearted disputes between neighbours , Carl had , several months back , begun to narrate their days like a voice-over on some hard-boiled detective movie .
It had been an ironic joke , now it was routine , but at least it came with fresh coffee and yesterday 's fresh doughnuts each morning .
After all , cops are meant to eat doughnuts .
Michael poured himself a steaming coffee into a small plastic cup , and took a long gulp .
`` How 'd it go then mate ? ''
Carl grunted by way of response .
It was virtually his primary mode of communication .
Sometimes at night she could hear gun fire through the trees and shouts of drunken glee as idiots with rifles and six packs shot at anything that came into their headlights on the winding roads that knit the woods together .
She looked down into the blue-black water .
When she swam , she never touched the bottom , making sure to dive off far enough from the end of the dock to wind up in deeper water , always shocked at its coldness even in high summer .
When her father had caught a 28 inch Northern Pike just off the dock casting late one afternoon , she’d looked at its gruesome teeth and considered never swimming again .
But her bonehead brother did all the time .
It was pure and cleansing in the high heat of July when she did forget the fish and dive in .
July was just far enough into the summer to still carry with it the relief from school , but also just far enough to start tweaking the sensitive social fibers of a 17 year old .
Jen wanted something to happen .
And it didn’t look like this pier was the beginning of that something .
Just graying wood jutting sleepily from the deep bluegrass lawn , waiting for boats that never came nor went save for her dad’s pathetic little 14 foot aluminum flat bottom with the 5 horse outboard on back that started only after her father had sworn at it for about 20 minutes and worked himself into a lather pulling at the starter cord .
Sometimes she got to take it out , just to have something to do , but she was afraid she’d pass some other kids in bigger boats – expensive Bayliners and Nautique ski boats – boats that held the progeny of probate lawyers and orthodontists .
Her dad was an artist .
So she putt-putted the aluminum boat slowly in and out of coves , hugging the shoreline lest she be spotted .
Jen was a “strawberry blonde” with skin that tanned well , but still revealed a light patchwork of freckles on her shoulders , face and upper chest .
She never much liked her freckles except when they were tan .
Everything looked better tan .
Her long thin legs , muscular from 3 years of high school volleyball , looked good , she thought .
She thought herself somewhat pretty .
More “cute” than beautiful , yet when she was tan , she saw her green eyes glow from the smooth lines of her tanned face , framed by lightened reddish blonde hair .
She hated her lips , which she thought were too thin , but other than that , she had to admit to herself that she was not ugly .
Chase was horrid .
Well , most of the time at least in Jen’s eyes , he was .
Chase was actually her little brother ( who hated being called that ) , a thin , tallish boy of 11 with the sort of angularity of face that made for awkward looks now but that would eventually become handsome , probably .
Chase was horrid not because of the things he did , but because of the very fact that he was tied to her like an anchor , especially at the lake house , where he was seen as not being old enough yet to watch out for himself .
This actually served simply as a ruse to get Jen to take him everywhere with her because he had nothing to do , and her parents knew that she would be extremely limited in her social activities with a younger brother in tow .
Not that she really had much else to do , but she chose to do nothing without him rather than with him .
Besides , he had no life .
Video gaming and writing computer programs that seemed to have no meaningful use to Jen composed his entire existence .
Taking him to a lake house in the woods was like taking a fish to the desert .
Thank God for laptops , she thought , although her parents restricted his use so that he would benefit from the nature experience , which of course he didn’t .
He became a pathetic , sullen barnacle clinging to Jen simply because he had nothing else very relevant to cling to .
She at least enjoyed the sun and , of course , always the odd chance of seeing guys in ski boats , with their thin waists , tan , strong upper bodies , lightly bleached hair from the sun .
However , except for the big holiday weekends , like Memorial Day and the 4th of July , these were about as elusive as her father’s “big honkin’ walleyes” .
When spotted , she only hoped they had binoculars to notice how her tan was coming along .
Tanner “Wake up , for the love of God , Tanner !
It’s 2 pm ! ” Tanner heard this through half dream sleep , and it pissed him off .
He’d heard approximately the same thing at eleven , noon , and one o’clock .
It’s summer , for goddsake , he thought .
If you can’t sleep late now , when can you ?
But by now his bladder was about to burst from last night’s clandestine beers , and besides , it was about “tanning time” .
Tanning time was the time of day when the girls started laying out on the various docks and beaches .
He spent less time skiing with his boat than he did cruising , really , although it was a hot ski boat ; old , but with a huge V-8 engine and plenty of power .
Hunger beckoned , as well , so he rolled out of his bed and into the early afternoon .
“Breakfast of champions” his mother said , giving up the fight , carrying a load of laundry to the back porch where an aging washer and dryer behind screen wire announced to the world that they were good solid middle class folk .
Tanner was tall and lean , but muscular .
The high school he went to was famous for turning out state championship gymnasts .
A couple had even gone on to Junior Olympic teams .
His strength was the pommel horse , an event which required both massive arm strength , balance and leg strength .
His physique was perfect for it , and after almost 7 years at it , he was a state contender .
It made him very popular in a school that favored gymnasts , which helped to overcome the fact that his parents were very blue collar .
It also whispered of scholarships , a very welcome term in a blue collar household .
A kind uncle had gone in “partners” with him to restore a ’69 Ford F-150 pickup – his uncle footing most of the bill – or he wouldn’t have wheels at all .
The boat was a loaner from a team mate whose parents had three .
Still , cool truck , star status , good looks and build , and the West side girls ( the area of town where the wealthy families lived ) , still looked through him .
Their boyfriends drove new cars .
Cars that cost more than the house Tanner lived in .
With breakfast out of the way , Tanner announced he was going to take his boat out .
“Please be home by dinner , OK ?
That’s about 3 hours from now , so take a watch , and make sure you wear your life preserver .
Just having them on the boat isn’t good enough .
If you hit a stump…” “Mom… “ Tanner interrupted .
“I’ve heard this speech at least 3 times this week .
Don’t worry , OK ? ” His mom shot him a look that combined frustration , dismay , and love at once , and Tanner left to walk to the dock where his boat lay tethered .
The Boat Jen lay drying in the high sun .
She could feel the small hairs on her arms prickling , then blowing free in the light wind as her arms dried .
The lake was warming somewhat , but still held the chill of the night .
She’d felt somewhat groggy – probably allergies – after breakfast and had decided to swim before lying out .
The water , cold as if holding some memory of its glacial past , washed all the grogginess out .
She felt fully alive now .
Occasionally boys would swoop past on their boats close enough to check her out .
When they didn’t slow , she figured ( wrongly ) that they didn’t like what they saw .
Sometimes they slowed , and occasionally went to a full idle , just going fast enough far enough off shore so as not to be seen as gawking , but close enough to get their message across .
It was to these boys that she gave a small wave and smile , lifting her head long enough to let them know she acknowledged the attention and returned it to some small degree .
Coy , but not too .
Tanner’s boat was running rough .
In fact , the reason he was hoving close to the shore was to make sure he was close enough to swim , pull the boat , or call for help if it died altogether .
It was a friend’s boat , and although it was a good ski boat with a big motor , it was not new , and probably needed to be gone over thoroughly .
Its inboard V-8 was running very rich , smoking more than usual , and he tried various throttle speeds to mitigate the roughness .
He didn’t in fact even notice Jen until he’d almost passed her .
Finally , about to gun the engine in frustration , he looked up squinting into the sun and saw a girl on the grass near a dock ; long golden legs , light reddish blonde hair , thick as a horse’s tail , stacked on top of her head to allow the sun to get at her neck , leaning up on her elbows .
She had been watching him , apparently , and was still watching him .
And it was easy to understand why .
While messing with the engine , staring at the tachometer , the engine mostly out of gear , the light wind had drifted him to within perhaps 30 yards of her dock .
Instinctively , he looked at the lake house behind her , unconsciously checking to see if she was a “rich” girl or not , noting its modest appearance , and then back to her .
She waved and mouthed the word “Hi” .
His heart went up a few beats per minute .
He cut the engine off .
“Hey ! ” he said , loudly enough to be heard , but not too loud as the sudden silence drew into focus the fact that he was really very close to trespassing .
“What’s up ? ” “Having engine trouble ? ” she said .
She had a high “girly” voice .
He loved voices like this .
But it had a smart edge to it , too .
Like “I’m sexy , but not a bimbo” .
“Yeah , I guess.” He responded , suddenly somewhat embarrassed at the condition of his boat .
A girl like this would probably think he was some lake bum .
“It’s running rough .
I don’t know what the deal is .
Sorry I came in so close .
I wasn’t paying attention , and the wind blew me in.” “I know .
It was sick .
Alan was sick .
Sometimes those church people who lived down the street called him unnatural and a deviant , but Alan was the deviant , not him .
Alan wanted him , and he was angry about it .
He wanted to have sex with him , and he wanted to hurt him when he did it .
He’d call it a punishment , Kevin just bet .
Just what the faggot boy deserved .
He would catch him alone sometime soon , and it would start the way it always did , with Alan slapping him around .
Then ol’ Alan would finally screw up his courage - Kevin laughed grimly to himself , that was a good one , screw up his courage - and he would do what he’d been wanting to do all along .
He’d rape him and he’d hurt him , leave him bleeding on the floor , and he’d act like it was all Kevin’s fault .
Because he didn’t want to admit that he really wanted to fuck guys .
That would make him a fag , and he was too macho to be a fag .
And nobody would believe that Kevin hadn’t wanted it , maybe not even his mother , and Alan would only get a slap on the wrist .
Or maybe they wouldn’t believe Kevin at all , maybe they’d think that he’d seduced Alan and then tried to cry rape .
He was legal , after all : He’d turned eighteen two days ago .
Since he was fourteen years old , he’d made it very clear exactly in which direction his sexual interests lay .
Everybody knew it .
It had been a matter of pride for Kevin .
He wasn’t going to pretend to be something that he wasn’t .
It might be the 21st century , but people still had the same prejudices that they’d had in the previous ones .
He’d come in for his share of hazing , even from people he had thought would understand .
So he knew that there was no use talking to anybody about it .
He’d tried to say something to his Moms , but she’d brushed it off and acted like she didn’t understand .
Kevin knew that she just didn’t want to understand .
If she believed him , she’d have to kick Alan out .
And then she would be alone .
Pretty fucked up , if you asked him .
As he paid for his ticket and got on the bus , he tried not to think about how much he was going to miss his Moms .
He laughed to himself , but it wasn’t a happy sound .
Maybe he was just like her , because he didn’t want to be alone , either .
*** Ah , good , he approaches our young friend , the old one thought hungrily .
He watched avidly as they walked behind the building together , a bright red tongue flicking at the lush contours of his lips .
Closer , my child , closer .
He took a deep breath , drawing the boy’s scent deeply into his nostrils , filling himself with the smell of his prey but careful to remain hidden in the shadows .
He was too hungry to go nearer .
He didn’t want to scare off their little pigeon .
This one was nervous already , and no doubt he would run screaming if he caught just a glimpse of what stared so ravenously at him from the shadows .
His eyes burned , and he almost flew from his hiding place .
He had left it too long , too long , and he must not do this again .
The hunger was almost uncontrollable .
He must feed more often , or he would turn on his own followers and drink them dry .
And then he would have to start all over again , searching for those who had the skills and the connections he needed .
That would take too much time ; it would be a waste of his energies .
He would just feed more often .
The boy was trying to act cool , but he was nervous .
He was pale , and he looked unwashed .
No doubt all that he owned in the world was contained in the crumpled backpack he clutched .
Be quick , Dan , my trusted one , the hunter whispered and knew that Dan heard him when he looked over to the place where he hid .
The old one cursed to himself .
Hadn’t he told him repeatedly not to look at him ?
The boy cocked his head to one side and looked his way , staring straight into the shadows where he was hiding .
The old one prepared to leap , but Dan leaned forward and whispered something in the boy’s ear .
He placed a hand on his shoulder , and the boy didn’t flinch away .
He leaned into Dan instead .
Good , that was good .
He hadn’t seen him .
Dan had mentioned money , of course , because money was what they all wanted , these absurd children .
The paper that would buy them things , dull their pain , fix their lives .
He smiled to himself .
But money would not change this one’s life , because it would be over as soon as he agreed to Dan’s proposition .
He just would not know it .
Yet .
The boy shook his head and held out his hand .
Dan argued , but the boy shook his head again .
The old one cursed to himself .
Give it to him , he whispered .
Give it to him now .
We will take it back from him later .
Dan put the money in his hand , and the boy nodded .
He shoved it quickly into his pocket .
The old one smiled .
The boy thought himself street smart , but he was too foolish and too trusting , and that worked to their advantage .
He would soon grow to regret his credulousness .
He would wait for them in the house , and the boy would not be frightened at first .
Then when he sees me among my followers and realizes our purpose , his terror will rise .
The old one smiled .
Their terror was so delicious .
It was hard to say which he liked best , their fear or their blood .
Dan put his arm around the boy and moved toward the car he had parked in the shadows .
The boy suddenly bolted , running unbelievably fast .
In seconds , he was around the building and on the crowded street .
Dan couldn’t keep up , and he stopped when he saw that he had no chance of catching him .
He put his hands to his head and bent over in pain as he heard the howl of rage inside his head .
Find me another .
Find me another !
Do it now .
Bring someone to the house within the hour or you will take his place .
Dan pulled his phone out of his pocket , sweating and shaking .
That girl who’d just joined them had a friend that she wanted to bring in with them , but that plan had just changed .
The friend could be tonight’s surprise party guest .
His fingers trembled so much he could hardly dial the number .
Please pick up , he thought .
Please , please , please .
When she answered on the second ring , Dan almost cried with relief .
*** Jessie Hartwell was dreaming of her mother when Mrs. Davis knocked on her bedroom door to tell her that a police officer was on the phone and wanted to talk to her .
“I always liked that name Kira , ” Mom was saying .
“It always made me think of the sound a hawk makes when it’s flying .
Kira .
It’s a real strong name , don’t you think ? ” Jessie looked over her shoulder to see Mom curled up on that raggedy old couch she refused to get rid of .
“It’s too comfortable to throw out , ” she always protested .
Do n't let anyone - me , Harry , these boys that work here , customers - Do n't let anyone cross those lines .
You see , Candy ? ” I nodded .
“Yeah ?
Then why not call me on calling you Candy ?
I 've done it since we sat down .
Why not start there ? ” “Well ...
I mean , you 're the boss , Jimmy.” “Which is why you start there .
I do n't allow anyone to talk anyway to anyone that does n't want that .
Let me explain that .
You got girls that work the streets .
You do n't see it so much here .
It 's a small city , but it happens .
I spent a few years on the streets in Rochester , bigger place , as a kid .
Happens all the time there.” He sipped at his drink .
I took a sip of my own drink and raised my brows at what he had said .
“Yeah ?
Do n't believe it ?
It 's true .
I fought my way up .
I have respect because I earned it.” He waved one hand .
“Do n't let me get off track.” He smiled and took another sip from his glass .
“So , I 've seen girls on the streets ... Whores ...
It is what it is .
Would you hear me say that to them ?
Maybe you would , maybe you would n't .
If a woman sees herself as a whore , if that 's all it is , what it is , then who am I to say different ?
Do you see ?
It 's a living , or it 's a life ...
There is a difference .
Now back to you .
You want to dance .
Some of these girls , ” he waved one meaty hand at the empty stage area , “work the other side .
Some of them do that for me , some do it on their own .
Some do n't , ” he sighed .
“Either way you would not see me treat them any other way than what they want to be treated .
I mean that .
If you believe you are a whore and that is what you see , then that is what you show the world , and that is how the world sees you ... treats you , ” he settled his eyes on me .
I nodded .
I did n't trust my voice .
I had been down this road on my own .
What did it say about me ?
That it only mattered that I made it ?
That money mattered more than anything else ?
Would I be swayed by the money ?
Was I even being honest with myself about my motivations ?
I really did n't know .
I knew what I told myself on a daily basis ... that I wanted to follow my Father into law enforcement , but was it whimsical like so many other things in my life that I never followed through on ?
“You are not just a dancer .
There is a part of you that is , a part of you that likes the way a man looks at you , likes the money .
But there is another part that is the private you , the real you .
You need to keep those distinctions.” He rubbed at his eyes , tossed off the rest of his drink and rose from the bar stool .
“Let me drop you home , Candy , ” he asked .
I stood , leaving my mostly full drink sitting on the bar top .
“I have my car , ” I told him .
“It 's late .
Creeps around maybe.” “Jimmy , every creep in my neighborhood knows I work here ... for you .
Guys stopped talking to me , let alone the creeps.” I laughed , but it was n't really all that funny .
It had scared me when I realized who Jimmy was , who Jimmy worked for .
In effect , who I worked for .
Another questionable thing ?
Probably .
Jimmy nodded .
“Smart creeps .
The southern Tier 's a big place .
Easy to lose yourself , with or without a little help.” He looked at his watch and then fixed his eyes on me once more .
“So you keep your perspective , set your limits , draw your lines , ” he spoke as he shrugged into his coat , retrieved his hat from the bar top and planted it on his head , “Do n't let nobody cross those lines .
You start next week , let 's say the eleventh ? ” I nodded .
“Take the balance of the time off .
By the time the eleventh comes around you should be ready for a whole new world .
A whole new life.” He stood looking down at me for a second .
“The big talk I guess .
For what it 's worth , I do n't say those things often , Candy.” I nodded .
“I believe that .
And , Jimmy ? ” He looked down at me .
He knew what was coming .
He expected it , and that was the only reason I was going to say it .
I knew better than to correct Jimmy V. There were a lot of woods up here .
They did go on forever and they probably did hold a lot of lost people .
I may be slow but I 'm far from stupid .
“Please do n't call me Candy , ” I told him .
He smiled .
“Do n't be so goddamn nice about it .
Do n't call me Candy , ” he rasped , a dangerous edge to his voice .
“Look 'em right in the eye .
Do n't call me Candy .
Put a little attitude in your look .
A little I can fuckin ' snap at any minute attitude .
Let me see that.” I Put my best street face on .
The one I had used growing up on the streets in Syracuse .
I knew that I can snap at any minute look .
I 'd used it many times .
“Do n't call me Candy , ” I told him in a voice that was not my own .
My street voice , “Just do n't do it.” “Goddamn right , Doll , ” Jimmy told me .
“Goddamn right .
Scared me a little there .
That 's that street wise part of you.” He took my head in both massive hands , bent and kissed the top of my head .
“I will see you on the eleventh , ” he told me .
I nodded .
I let the Doll remark go .
I followed Jimmy out the back door past Don who nodded at me and winked .
He squeezed between the rear bumper of the car and the front bumper of the van behind it , dragging the bike to the sidewalk .
He laid the bike down on the sidewalk , took a step toward the carpet .
“Hey , ” he said .
“Hey !
Are you alright ?
Do you need help ? ” There was no response .
Shane crouched down beside the carpet , near the end opposite the feet .
“Hey ! ” he said again , aiming the words at the opening in the roll .
He saw that the carpet was sodden , soaked with a dark liquid on this side .
“Hello ? ” No response .
Shane looked up the sidewalk in both directions .
He got to his feet and looked up the street where the police car had gone .
The street was dead .
“Never there when you actually need them , ” he said .
“Fucking cops.” He crouched back down .
“Hey ! ” he said , shaking the carpet roll .
When that got no response , he gave it a good shove .
The carpet rocked toward the pylon and then rebounded , rolling toward him .
Shane stood and stepped back quickly .
And then he heard a low moan , muffled by the carpet , coming from the rolled up figure inside .
“Hey ! ” Shane shouted at the opening in the carpet .
“Are you all right ? ” The figure moaned again .
Shane put both his hands against the rough carpet backing and started rolling the carpet away from the pylon .
It took three turns , the polished shoes flopping as they rotated , and then the carpet rolled open .
The man inside came to a rest facedown on the concrete .
His hair was greasy and dirty , bits of debris in it .
His arms and legs were limp .
“Are you okay ? ” Shane asked , hovering over the man but hesitant to touch him .
The man moaned again , and Shane took hold of his shoulder , turning him .
The man flopped over onto his back .
“Aw , shit , ” Shane said , stepping back .
“You stink like a damn brewery.” He waved a hand in front of his face .
The man moaned again .
The front of his suit was coated with crusted red vomit .
Dried blood had clotted in the stubble under his nose .
His eyes were squeezed shut , dark bags under them as though he’d been on a bender .
“So I’m gon na be late for work ‘cause you can’t handle your liquor , ” Shane said .
“Why can’t you crash in your own flat , like every other drunk yuppie ? ” And then the man opened his eyes , and Shane’s words caught in his throat .
The whites of the man’s eyes were so bloodshot they looked angry red .
They looked as if they’d been scrubbed raw with sand .
And the man’s gaze looked so glazed and dull that Shane could see no sign of active thought behind them .
He looked like he was asleep with his eyes open .
Asleep , or dead .
“Fuck , man , ” Shane said , stepping back .
“You need to get your shit sorted out .
Rehab , or something.” Abruptly , the man rolled toward Shane , his hand reaching out .
“Take it easy , ” Shane said , stepping back .
The man lurched up onto his hands and knees , crawling toward Shane .
“Hey ! ” Shane said .
He took another step back , and bumped into something hard .
He turned his head , saw he’d backed into a parked car .
And then he felt something gripping his leg , tight around his ankle .
He looked down , trying to pull his leg free .
The man had him , and his grip held fast , despite Shane’s attempt to pull his leg back .
“What the fuck ? ” Shane said , getting angry again .
He felt the man pulling his ankle , drawing it toward him .
He saw the man’s mouth open , teeth bared .
“What the fuck ! ” Shane said , jerking his leg back again forcefully .
The man dropped onto his chest , but still he held fast .
And now his other hand came forward , reaching for the same ankle .
Shane’s irritation flared into anger .
Before he could think of what he was doing , his own hands came down , shoving the man’s face into the sidewalk with a crack .
The hand holding his ankle went slack .
Shane hopped back , suddenly horrified .
“I’m sorry , man , ” he said .
“I’m sorry .
Are you okay ? ” The man lifted his head up to look at Shane .
His lip had split like a cat’s , his front teeth were broken , awash with running blood .
But his eyes were just as dead as they’d ever been .
“Fuck this , ” Shane said , backing away .
He snatched up his bike , squeezing between the bumpers of the car and the van , desperate to get back to the street .
As soon as he’d passed through , he threw his left leg over the bike , nearly losing his balance in the process .
Out of the corner of his eye he saw the man rising to his feet on the far side of the car .
Shane lifted his foot toward the pedal , hopping on one leg , almost losing his balance again .
The man lurched toward the gap between the car and van , and Shane put all of his weight onto the left pedal , lifting himself off the ground as the bike rolled forward .
He dropped his right foot onto the other pedal , started cranking as fast as he could .
Behind him came a moan , low and throaty and long , loud in the otherwise silent night .
Shane looked back over his shoulder , pedaling hard , and saw the dark figure of the man following him , stumbling up the middle of the street .
Chapter 2 Shane kept up his sprint , standing up and pedaling furiously , until he got to Townson Street .
At Townson he pulled up onto the sidewalk on the left side of the street , letting the bike coast until it slowed to walking speed .
He hopped off the bike and started walking , breathing deep and trying to calm himself down .
An image of the drunk yuppie’s eyes was in Shane’s head , bloodshot and lifeless .
He looked around , trying to force the image out .
Although it was only a few minutes from the homeless-occupied sidewalks of 13th , Townson was a world away in terms of niceness .
The city had put a huge amount of money into renovating the first few blocks of the street , widening the sidewalks , repaving the road , even putting in a few trees and benches .
It was part of the city’s bid to court new tech start-ups , and coupled with the tax breaks the city had offered to such companies , the bid had been pretty successful .
The large , red-brick buildings that lined the first few blocks of Townson now sported flashy signs for companies that hadn’t even existed a few years ago .
ZapPow ! , where Shane worked , was one of those companies .
It occupied the first building on the street , which it had decorated with a gigantic version of the ZapPow !
company logo : a neon pink silhouette of a fluffy kitten , standing on its hind legs , holding an Uzi in each hand .
The logo and company name were repeated , in smaller form , on the double smoked-glass doors of the entrance .
Shane didn’t bother to look as he passed .
He hurried to the end of the building and ducked into a dead-end alley there .
Ten feet down the alley was a plain metal door .
Shane fumbled in his pocket for his keycard and dipped the card into the slot beside the door .
The lock whirred , and Shane jerked the door open .
He grabbed his bike and hurried down a short , bare-walled hallway , using his keycard again to get into the first door on the left .
A motion sensor switched the lights on , revealing a small room crowded with a large table and chairs and a row of lockers across the back wall .
Shane leaned his bike against the table and hurried to the back of the room , where the time clock sat on another , smaller table beside a little microwave .
He snatched his paper timecard from the wall holder and jammed it into the machine , letting out a breath as the machine clunked his start-time for the day .
He knew he only had a few seconds to get his bearings before he would be thrust into combat with whatever was inside .
Rows of cheap metal shelving units spanned the room , covered in various objects that would have been good for looting .
These trinkets were not the prize though , and Matt would waste no time on them .
What he had come for , however , was also in plain sight .
Resting atop a table on the opposite side of the room sat the rocket launcher safely housed in its metal case , just waiting for him .
For a moment , Matt felt a glimmer of hope .
But it was quickly dashed as his eyes landed on the real obstacle .
At least ten feet tall , and as big around as a barrel , solid with bruise colored muscle and flesh , stood the Harbinger , a super zombie , guarding the rocket launcher .
Matt knew that it had seen the door open , heard the groans from the other zombies and the screams from Matt 's comrades .
Surely , the Harbinger would awaken and swoop down like merciless death .
But it did n't .
It just stood there , silent and still , as if it had no intentions of attacking at all .
Matt took a deep breath and raised his crossbow to take aim , but no sooner did he move then the horrific Goliath charged him , knocking over the rows of shelving as if they were n't even there , sending various objects sailing through the air like shrapnel in its wake .
Matt 's eyes grew wide as he saw the giant scythe raised high above his head .
What is rust or blood that stained its blade permanently red ?
Probably both , Matt thought as he fired an arrow into the Harbinger 's face .
That absolutely horrific face , made of burnt flesh and metal and stitching .
There were n't any eyes for it to see out of , no nose for it to smell Matt 's human scent , not even any ears to hear him scurrying about in panic .
How the Harbinger detected its victims was a mystery , yet it somehow knew they were there .
The arrow was pathetically weak against the monster .
It stuck about an inch deep into the center of the Harbinger 's face and did n't seem to phase him one bit .
In acknowledgment that it was a lost cause to fight , Matt sidestepped the swinging blade as it came down , and darted past the Harbinger towards the rocket launcher , tossing his crossbow to the side along the way .
If he could just reach the rocket launcher , he would be alright .
With the Harbinger behind him , Matt jumped around the fallen shelving as quickly as his feet would allow .
One false step would mean death at the hands of the monster .
As much as he wanted to look back , Matt knew it would only cost him time , something that was crucial now that he had already wasted enough of it firing the arrow at the Harbinger 's head .
Had he immediately sidestepped and ran for the rocket launcher , his chances of survival might have been considerably higher .
Matt could feel the wind pick up around him as the scythe came down next to his right shoulder .
For the fact that the Harbinger was so big , he was n't a very good aim , and he was also surprisingly slow .
Finally , Matt reached the table .
He stretched out his arm to grab the case .
His fingertips slid over the hard top , fumbled over the side of it , touched the handle , and then he froze in place .
Not frozen , but stuck .
Matt coughed a breath that was muddled with blood , choking him as it spilled out the corners of his mouth .
Had the scythe gone completely through him ?
Matt 's palm hit the top of the case with a messy thud .
His fingers desperately tried to crawl toward the handle , but it was all for naught .
The Harbinger pulled back on the scythe , and Matt came with it , ran completely through , from the top of his spine where the oversized blade had entered , to the base of his pelvis where it had hooked him a second time .
With brute force , the Harbinger slung his blade , as if to clean it from the filthy human body that was now impaled on the end .
Matt splattered against the wall , entrails cascading down from the wound that cut him from throat to crotch .
He made a final gurgling sound as he watched the Harbinger resume his sentinel position in front of the rocket launcher , hiding it from view .
Chapter 3 Cade pulled the Felote from his head and wiped the sweat from where it had been crowning him for over three hours .
For the Felote being the most advanced technology in gaming , you 'd think it would have been lighter .
The thick round headband that gave the gamer the ability to enter a dreamlike state and enjoy games as if he were actually in them , put a real strain on Cade 's neck .
He rubbed his eyes and then focused in on his computer screen , watching as the zombies tore him apart .
In the distance , between the first storage hangar and the supply room , he thought he could see the zombies finishing off bits and pieces of Brandon , though there certainly was n't much left of him .
An intestine here , a lung there—and was that a foot .
Cade did n't feel like zooming in to find out .
One thing that Zombie Wars Online was fond of was letting you watch your own death , in sick detail , every single time .
Cade was annoyed by the fact that he could n't speed it up , or skip it completely .
The creators of the game said that it was more realistic that way .
They really wanted to drive home the point of what would happen if you failed a mission during the real zombie apocalypse .
That was all well and entertaining for the first few times .
The game was so advanced that you could be killed a million times , and it would n't go down exactly the same way .
Still , when you played the game for as long as Cade had , ever since it had been in beta , having to sit through death scenes that lasted for at least one minute got a bit redundant .
They forced you to watch until your character was completely dead , whether it took one minute or ten minutes .
Cade had heard that this one guy had to sit through over thirty minutes of death footage .
His character had got himself caught in a trap , and a single weak straggling zombie had come along and taken its time eating him .
The guy could have committed suicide , but he said that he wanted to test how long a death scene could take in the game .
But the game designers took it farther than that .
You could watch until you were completely devoured as well—see how many zombies would come along to take part in your fallen corpse .
Like seagulls being thrown bread on the beach , you start with one or two , by the time the loaf of bread is gone , there are fifty surrounding you , begging for scraps .
Cade did n't understand the appeal of watching every single death every single time .
The more you watched yourself die , the more desensitized you became to it , the less fun it was to see .
Still , it was a popular thing to do .
Since players could take in game video footage , a lot of people purposely got themselves killed in the most interesting ways that the game offered and would upload the videos on YouTube .
These types of videos often got thousands of hits .
Cade decided to let his death play out onscreen while he went to get a glass of water .
As soon as Matt got his hands on the rocket launcher , they would all be portaled to the military compound anyway .
Even if Matt did n't succeed , they would probably all be back at the compound before he returned with the water .
By the time Cade slid onto his computer chair , Matt and Brandon were standing next to his character at the military compound .
Cade gave the Felote an unpleasant look before picking it up and sliding it on his head .
Within a minute , the reality around him disappeared , and he was back in the game , as if it were just as real as the bedroom that he was actually sitting in .
Characters on the computer screen were much less realistic than when you were wearing the Felote .
Outside of the game , characters ' expressions were vaguely discernible when they were n't over dramatic .
Inside the game , they were lifelike , and it became obvious to Cade before he had even opened his mouth that Matt failed in getting the rocket launcher .
“You did n't get it , did you ? ” Cade glowered at Matt .
“Dude , there was a Harbinger in there , ” Matt quickly went on defense .
“Just one ? ” “Yeah , but the room was small .
I could n't get away from it.” “I told you to fucking run , ” anger quickly seeped into Cade 's voice .
“Dude , I did .
I even got to the rocket launcher .
My hand was on it .
I even touched the handle.” Matt 's eyes glazed over as he recalled the ordeal .
“It was like that episode of Naruto where Kakashi makes them go after those bells .
I touched the bell , but I could n't get my hand around it.” Cade did n't want to hear it .
He was certain that Matt had done something to fuck it all up , someway , somehow .
“Give him a break , ” Brandon said , as if reading Cade 's condescending thoughts .
“Sending him in was n't the best idea anyway .
He did n't have a chance .
It should have been you or I that went in.” Cade sighed .
To be honest , they set the mission up for failure .
Between Matt being low level and them not having a full party to begin with , they did well to get as far in the mission as they had .
Most other players would have died long before reaching the supply room with only three members .
“Oh well , ” he said finally .
“At least we know what to expect now.” “Yeah , ” Brandon replied .
“We should wait to try again until Roland logs on .
And take either a healer or Deidre with us.” “Deidre is weaker than Matt .
He 'd probably be the first to die , ” Cade objected .
“Well then , we should find a high level Lycan or a Medic to join us.” “Perhaps we should find another Archer as well.” Cade shot Matt a hurtful glance .
“You may have sent your enemies cowering back to their tents simply by taking the field of battle , never defeated—yet I , never having faced combat , managed to ensnare you .
I relish this defeat of the mighty Baron Campbell .
Where’s your precious code of honor now , dearest brother ? ” Thigh muscles rippling as he strained against his chains , Colin was gratified to hear one of the bolts scraping against stone .
If he could pry one loose , he’d have a fighting chance of escape before the English hanged him .
“Look brother , the world’s a harsh , brutal place .
It’s time I have the title , the fortune , and the lass .
It’s too bad ye’ll be dead and won’t be able to do a blasted thing about it.” Hamish yawned , pulling a dagger from his boot .
In a deadpan , flat tone , Hamish continued , “I have hated ye since we were seven and father said ye were his favorite .
Ye think his fall down the stairs when I was thirteen was an accident ?
I pushed the bastard .
He never treated me as anything other than second best to ye .
And mother .
Oh yes , I poisoned her for loving ye more than me .
I was the ‘spare heir , ’ nothing more to them .
All of ye sodding idiots thought she’d died of natural causes.” By the gods , with this reprehensible confession his brother had gone stark raving mad .
Struggling to break free , blood coursed in fresh rivulets down his muscled body tearing wounds the English had bestowed upon him when they’d tortured him .
The gut-wrenching pain was nothing compared to the unbearable ache ripping through his soul at the knowledge his own brother had murdered their loving parents .
Colin couldn’t breathe , the agonizing pain of their loss hitting him again after so many years , crashing over him in waves .
“Go ahead ye cowardly , craven bastard , ” Colin roared .
Straining , veins bulging in his arms and neck , Colin ground out , “Fucking strutting peacock , ye can’t even fight me like a man .
Ye come at me to kill me when I’m chained to a bloody wall ?
I. Curse .
Ye .
I. Curse .
Abigail .
May ye both rot in hell with nary a day of peace for the rest of your miserable lives .
Well , go on then , do it.” Colin didn’t flinch as his brother came running towards him , dagger held out straight in front—tensing , he waited for the blow .
The blade glanced off , carving a bloody ribbon across his chest .
“That all ye’ve got ?
Ye wouldn’t last a minute in battle , the English would rip you to bloody shreds.” Colin taunted his brother .
He knew how tough and resisting skin was , it wasn’t easy to stab someone .
Hamish’s eyes were round with fear .
Colin watched him wrap both hands around the dagger , cock his arms back ramming the blade into Colin’s chest He couldn’t breathe as the metal bit into him , taking his lifeblood .
Gasping for breath , he narrowed his eyes , watching his brother , noting the shaking arms , the sweat dripping from his brow as Hamish leaned hard on the blade , straining , grunting , as slowly , inch by inch the dagger slid deeper into his chest until it stopped—hitting bone .
Hamish paled , his entire body quivering with the strain as he rocked back on his heels , and with a mighty shove Colin heard a crack , bone splintering as the dagger found its mark—straight into his heart .
He dimly saw Hamish retching , wiping his arm across his mouth , putting his head between his knees to breathe so he wouldn’t pass out—it was a common bodily reaction the first time you killed someone .
His heart slowed down , the strong beats becoming weaker , skipping erratically .
“It’s my time now , brother .
My turn to be baron ! ” Hamish yelled .
The buzzing in Colin’s brain took over , his body shutting down , heart failing , breath coming in labored gasps , Hamish’s voice fading out .
“Rawlins , have this bloody , revolting mess cleaned up.” Turning on his heel as Colin shuddered , taking his last wheezing breath , blood slowly dripping on the damp stone floor ; Hamish slid the ancient ring bearing the Campbell family crest off Colin’s finger .
He wiped the bloody ring clean on Colin’s kilt before sliding it onto his finger and fled the dungeon .
Darkness was closing in , the roaring in his head subsiding .
Colin could hear Hamish talking to someone , a woman—it couldn’t be—Abigail come to see him die .
He would never trust another , never let another get close to him , and never fall in love again .
The pain was intense , scorching its way through his heart , encasing the shriveled black lump in ice .
Hamish and Abigail’s voices receded , his eyesight failed him—no , not yet—Hamish will destroy everything I’ve built .
There are families depending on me , those who need me .
I canna go , not now .
As he faded , the noise took over—like a winter thunderstorm , waves crashing against the rocks and one final dying thought screamed its way through his mind and burst forth , “Damn it to hell .
I. Won’t .
Die.” The shadows came , sliding around the floor and slithering up the walls to swallow Colin .
His dying soul fought , screaming out for more time , for another chance , for retribution .
Filled with rage , he looked down upon his limp , earthly body .
Through the mist and shadow , Colin saw lightning beckoning in the darkness , heard a whisper within the maelstrom—offering him a choice .
Chapter 1 Present Day Friday , October 30th Edinburgh , Scotland “How about touring Mary King’s Close , then the South Bridge Vaults ?
The Close is supposed to be the best-known , most haunted of them all on the Royal Mile .
Who knows , maybe we’ll see Annie , the little girl who was killed during the Plague when they walled up the Close with people inside .
It’ll be spooky fun .
Old buildings , dark , dank , falling apart , what’s not to love ? ” Emily’s eyes lit up at Kat’s suggestion .
Breathing deeply , the air smelled crisp and brisk with a full moon trying to break through the clouds as a light drizzle fell on Old Town .
Edinburgh seemed eerie with its cobblestone streets , tall medieval buildings so close at the top , the neighbors could reach out and touch each other , and shadows dancing on the streets , playing hide and seek with the moon as the sky darkened to indigo .
Looking around the old street , mist rising up from the cobblestones , curling around the buildings , the hair on the back of Emily’s neck rose , as if unseen hands in the mist caressed her .
Shivering in the chilly air , the fog rolling in , she couldn’t believe she was actually here .
Back in the third grade , in Charleston , a boy named Dougal , from the Isle of Skye , off the coast of Scotland regaled her with fantastic tales of his homeland .
His voice , the way he spoke , rolling his r’s , entranced her as she dreamed of warrior princes in a faraway land .
When he moved away it broke her heart .
Ever since then she’d fantasized about visiting the country .
Wandering around the city , exploring the stone circles , all the moldy old castles , and historic buildings , she could barely contain herself from running up and down the street shouting with joy at finally achieving her dream .
Standing with hands on her hips , one eyebrow cocked , Katherine “Kat” Chandler was five foot seven , same as Emily , though Kat had long auburn hair showcasing a gorgeous creamy complexion topped off by piercing blue eyes .
Red boots , jeans , a turquoise sweater , and an indigo scarf , topped off with a shocking pink coat complemented her striking looks .
Sometimes Emily wondered if she needed sunglasses when she was around Kat .
The girl always wore bright clothes , carrying an infectious laugh and smile to go with them .
Emily didn’t care if she faded into the woodwork when she was with Kat .
She preferred to be in the background rather than center stage .
Her best friend’s outfit contrasted with Emily’s worn , faded jeans , grey hoodie , black boots , and sensible , black pea coat .
A silk scarf in shades of blue and gray which deepened the gray in her eyes , wrapped around her messy brunette updo , provided a hint of color .
The two of them were like male and female birds .
The brightly colored male eclipsing the drab female was how the two of them looked standing next to each other .
Shrugging , Emily realized Kat was talking to her .
She’d been having a hard time concentrating since the accident .
Eyes crinkling , a huge grin across her face , Kat snorted , “Seriously , earth to Emily .
I promise to ask any ghosts we encounter to scare Charlie to death , just go on the tour with me , hon .
Please ? ” Kat could always make her laugh until she cried…heaven knows she needed to giggle and have fun .
They were spending two whole weeks in Scotland after Emily’s last boyfriend , who was supposed to be The One , Charlie , a.k.a .
the overgrown frat boy , almost killed her nearly three months ago .
“I am so over jerks treating women like disposable razors .
Use one up ; throw her away , on to the next.” Blowing bangs out of her eyes , Emily huffed .
“I’ve had it with guys pretending to be caring and sensitive when all they really want is to screw anything with two legs and a pulse.” The rat bastard was sexting Candy and driving while she herself was sitting right next to him in the passenger seat of the tiny BMW .
What kind of a name was Candy anyway ?
Should have been the first clue .
Some good friend she turned out to be .
With friends like that who needs enemies ?
It happened so fast .
One minute driving along , the next , Charlie lost control of the car , crashing into a tree .
The car rolled on its side into the stream trapping her in the icy water .
The next thing Emily knew , she came to , screaming in the ambulance on the way to Mercy Hospital .
Still couldn’t believe she had been declared clinically dead for eight minutes before they revived her .
Someone must have been watching over her .
Got ta love modern medicine .
Joshua figured she was a bit deaf and didn’t catch his question about her name .
Joshua looked down at the crystal .
When he held the smooth stone in his hand , he could feel a warm sensation against his skin .
He decided to slip the crystal underneath his shirt , not ready to explain the gift to his father and stepmother .
The old woman was overwhelmed by Falls River Hospital , part of a sprawling healthcare campus that included a cancer center and a nursing home .
Medical buildings surrounded the area , along with the downtown Falls River State University close by .
All of the traffic and crowds made her anxious .
She liked living in the country ; she craved the peace and quiet , being close to the natural world .
She pulled the stolen volunteer tag from her sweater , dropping it in a corner trash bin before getting on the elevator .
She looked around her , hoping Joshua’s father would not bump into her .
The elevator took her to the underground parking garage .
She could hear the noise of the city as soon as she stepped out .
The day was warm , but she would walk to the McDonald’s around the corner before getting a cab to take her to the bus station .
She had no intention of staying in Falls River another day .
Max Hildebrand and his wife Brenda parked Max’s SUV in the underground garage just minutes before the old woman left the elevator .
All Max and Brenda saw was her back as she exited from the garage to the sidewalk .
Max was in his late forties , a ball player’s build going to fat .
He had taken some hits in high school football and in the military , his looks becoming more rugged with age .
His bright brown eyes conveyed a warmth and intelligence , his smooth voice giving him a calm demeanor .
He walked slowly due to an old knee injury .
Brenda , ten years younger than her husband , was a petite , buxom redhead with fair skin and freckles .
She had a nervous energy that kept her thin .
Her gentle demeanor hid a perfectionism and drive .
She had been a pageant girl , her trophies and ribbons now kept in the bedroom closet , the scholarship money sending her to college for a few years .
Brenda had been Max’s second wife , but no one at the plant or at home mentioned Brenda’s secondary status , because they all knew competing with the memory of Elizabeth was futile , including Brenda .
The old woman walked down the busy street at the sidewalk .
The time was around five and drivers were returning home from work .
She looked up at the clear blue sky .
She was past the hospital , just steps from a McDonald’s .
She could smell French fries and coffee as she came closer .
At an outside table , a little girl was playing with a small plastic monkey with cymbals in each hand , the monkey clapped the cymbals together , making a hollow noise .
The woman heard a whisper in her ear , then she heard music .
As the melody came in stronger , she identified the tune she had composed by ear on her piano over fifty years ago , but the notes were being hummed by another voice , a female .
She hadn’t played piano in years , too much arthritis in her fingers .
She looked down at her hands , caught in a distant memory .
She began to move her fingers on invisible keys , as she heard the humming .
The little girl at the table noticed what the old woman was doing , her fingers playing an imaginary piano .
The woman’s eyes were closed , and she hummed to herself , “ ... da ... da ... dada ... da ... da ... ” The girl left the table , toy in hand .
Others had noticed the woman , but were too busy or occupied to care .
As the child approached , the flip-flops on her feet clapped against the pavement .
The woman opened her eyes .
The child dropped her toy and screamed .
The woman felt a warm wetness on her cheeks .
Had she been crying ?
She looked down at her arms and hands , still in a playing position .
She didn’t recognize the fingers ; gnarled bumps , age spots , the nails kept short .
The girl had ran back to her mother , who grabbed her cell phone to call 9-1-1 .
The woman started to feel dizzy .
She touched her cheek , seeing the blood on her fingers .
She doubled over , a spray of blood rushing from her mouth and nose .
As she collapsed , the whispering , the voices , came in closer and closer , shutting out the sound of the people on the street .
She knew these voices ; the friends she had ran away from after the fire , when Elizabeth had burned .
They all got what they thought they wanted , but Elizabeth was willing to pay the price .
They all knew she wouldn’t be the last ; time would make them all accountable .
“I see you’re packed , ” Brenda said .
“Colbie would have come with us , but she felt too tired for the drive.” “Josh , ” Max said , “we need to tell you something about Colbie ... ” “Colbie ? ” Joshua asked .
Max sighed and Brenda looked away .
Joshua , still sitting at the bed , looked from his father to his stepmother .
Max began .
“Colbie—“ “She’s pregnant .
You told me.” “Right .
Well , she’s moved in with us .
We figure it will be easier that way .
She’s due in December.” Joshua had already been told that Colbie was his girlfriend , although he could not recall what she looked like or ever having dated her .
He wished Dad had brought a photo .
He did not remember his parents at first , but he soon began to recognize them .
Brenda brought him a puzzle book that included memory games .
Dr. Warner considered the memory loss short-term , but Joshua would need plenty of rest to recover from the virus .
Joshua’s fever had been dangerously high , along with the spikes in his blood sugar .
Joshua also could not recall the stiff neck and blinding headache before the fever set in , when the ambulance brought him to the emergency room .
He spent almost two weeks in bed , semi-conscious the first three days , raging with fever while getting one IV after another , wearing a catheter .
He felt like he was dying .
He was given painkillers , his dreams fast and frightening .
He tried to get out of bed ; the nurses had to restrain him on the second night .
Later , a nurse told him that he had been screaming for his mother , he said she was burning in the fire .
Elizabeth .
Another face he couldn’t recall .
“Being at home will help you with your memory , ” Brenda said .
“Familiar surroundings , all of your stuff ... ” “Let’s get going before traffic gets any worse , ” Max said .
“Do you think you need a wheelchair , Josh ? ” “No .
I feel fine.” He got up from the bed and felt the crystal against his skin .
The stone felt very cold , like ice .
He pulled the chain up from under his shirt .
“Where did you get that ? ” Brenda asked .
“Some old lady volunteer gave it to me .
Said it would help me heal.” Brenda looked to Max , who was now holding Joshua’s suitcase by the handle .
She said , “I didn’t know healing crystals were being given out in hospitals as treatment.” Joshua shrugged .
“She was nice.” Max eased his SUV out of the hospital parking garage .
He turned a left , stopping at a traffic light in the intersection by the McDonald’s .
The three of them saw a human figure wrapped in a blanket from head to toe , being pushed in a gurney through the back doors of an ambulance .
A crowd was staring .
“Funny how someone can die right next to a hospital , ” Max said .
“Probably a stroke or a heart attack , ” Brenda said .
“Someone can be here today , gone tomorrow.” Joshua placed his fingers on the crystal , now warm .
He did not tell them how icy the stone had become , because he wanted to keep wearing it .
For some reason , he felt as if the old woman knew him .
Chapter Two Joshua ran his fingers through his light brown hair , curly and thick .
He checked his skin in the bathroom mirror .
He was still pale , but his brown eyes were bright .
He had lost weight , which made him look even less filled out for his age .
Why do you have a test today ?
Are your teachers crazy ?
And you too , there is a growing darkness in the Great Colombia , the reality of this country is now different and I can not believe you do not see it .
I believe in people sweety , but things are looking very bad and when things get bad people do things they never thought they would ever do.” “What can you do then ?
Stay at home all the time ?
Do not worry , I will take care of myself .
If anything happen I will find a way to come back .
And have a little faith mother , this country is not like that.” “Fine.” She said and gave him an even stronger hug .
“God be with you and take care of you .
Call me every once in a while to know you are still fine.” “Of course mother.” Answered Guillem .
After he finished talking with his mother , he went to his room to finish getting dressed .
It was already too late for college and his friends must be about to go and pick him up .
The street was very quiet , nothing out of the ordinary and hopefully it would stay that way .
He waited in front of his house a couple of minutes for his friends until they finally arrived .
As usual Roberto was driving his old rusty brown Toyota Land Cruiser from 1986 which he had modified to be slightly more raised from the floor than usual and had a huge bull bar , behind him was Cristobal in his red Suzuki Swift from 1992 .
He boarded Cristobal 's Suzuki , there was Edward and Lucio as well .
In Roberto 's Toyota was travelling Xavier , Maria and Tom .
After the usual salutations they went to college , they studied in the Central University of the Great Colombia which was probably the best of the country 's colleges .
It was government financed and open to everyone who wanted to get a career .
It was one of those few , but wonderful things the previous governments had done for their country .
Obviously there were a lot of people abusing the institution , some of them having already spent up to 15 years in there , but it was a great place nonetheless which gave a lot of low income people an opportunity at education which they would not have had otherwise .
“Hey kiddos , can you believe people voting for Jesus Cabrera ? ” Said Lucio .
“There will always be idiots around , I insist that we must have faith in Great Colombian people .
I want to believe that after so many years of corruption our people would give some thought about who to put as a president.” Said Guillem .
“I do not like Cabrera , but why should he be any worst than the usual idiots ? ” Asked Cristobal .
“For once he kidnapped a group of business men a few years ago where he almost caused the death of many people , he is an ex police man and is as ignorant as it gets .
Nobody wants to put in the most powerful job in Great Colombia a person like that .
You know what that will do to Great Colombia 's image to the world ?
No one will want to come in here and invest money .
In fact , I am afraid for my job at the chocolate company.” Said Edward .
“Not only that , but I was studying his career in the police and it could not be worst , the guy has been investigated multiple times by Internal Affairs and has been found guilty of multiple minor crimes on top of that there is a warning in his record regarding his laziness and lack of respect for his superiors .
But the problem is that he has managed to link with the poorest people in Great Colombia .
I found out as well that he keeps close contact with a few Caribbean islands ' leaders and some other people from different countries , there is the rumour that they have plans to take over South America and convert it to communism .
You will see , if he gets to power he will start financing his people in other neighbouring countries , the plan is already on its way.” Said Lucio .
“Oh my god Lucio , is that like the stories about vampires , werewolves and other crazy things you follow ?
Stop with the conspiracy theories.” Said Guillem laughing .
“They are not stories , they are real .
You will see .
Not only that , there are other worlds and the people from those places is always looking at us and kidnapping people to experiment with them .
I am afraid that will happen to me one of these days.” “Come on , this is too much for the morning .
Why do n't we talk about cards ?
Women ?
Women playing cards ?
There are a few nice new ladies in the faculty of science now , but they always stay away from us and our game .
We should find one for Guillem , she might be able to take away the burning summer he must have down there after all this years without being with a lady.” Said Cristobal smiling .
“What about Maria ?
She is hot.” “Maria ?
Tell her anything and she might take your eyes out .
They parked both cars as usual in the baseball stadium and from there each one of them went to their faculties and work places .
The day went by in complete normality .
Many people had failed to come into college that day , most probably scared about the election results .
At noon he had finally had a few minutes free and went to a close coffee shop to study for the test he had that afternoon .
There were the usual groups around , one of the most notorious of them was a group of three sisters , Viviana , Veba and Vohemia .
Finally the mother was always backing them up in all the did and took care of the two kids the older sister had in her adventures , she looked like a very old and crinkly hag and had a fairer than thou attitude all the time .
The kids looked like a younger version of the sisters .
He managed to sit in a far away table to avoid the bad sisters .
There were a few televisions in the place and as it was to be expected they were tuned to the channel giving the election results .
He ordered a hamburger and studied while waiting for it , a few minutes later his food was ready and delivered to his table .
He started eating , but just a few minutes later the results were announced .
Jesus Cabrera was the winner and as it was common all the other candidates showed up yelling every way they could , saying the elections were rigged .
It was just like looking at a group of children that lost the lollipop they had been licking for the past few years .
As soon as the results were announced the majority of the coffee 's customers stood up screaming in excitement and went toward the televisions as if they wanted to touch Jesus Cabrera through the screen , it was as if they saw a saint or something like it , a lot of them were crying of happiness .
The group was conformed by the worst of the faculty 's students , drug addicts , known troublemakers and thieves , whores and vagrants , he even saw the sisters holding hands in happiness as if they were doing some sort or ritual .
Most of the people celebrating had at least 7 years in college and were still very far away from graduating , having said that , most of them had a proven expertise in avoiding the law since most of them were minor criminals .
So huge was the amount of people that came in to try and see the televisions that they surrounded Guillem 's table completely blocking his view of them .
He grabbed his food and got away from the group as much and as quickly as possible , finding finally a few empty spots in the most farther away tables , as soon as he got there he noticed that the few people out of the crowd had a very sad and pessimist look in their eyes .
Finally he managed to sit down at an empty table and continued eating and studying for his test which was about to start and for which he still had not had enough time to study properly .
From the table he could still hear the television through the crowd , so he was able to hear when Cabrera started his speech .
“Comrades !
Now I can call you all my Bolivarian comrades !
You will see !
Now we are going to convert this country in an egalitarian society .
Let 's forget about democracy , that is a concept created by gringos to steal our resources from us , it was imposed by the empire of USA !
Now we are going to convert Great Colombia into a socialism , a socialism of the XXI century !
From now on anyone that has a car shall share it , if you see someone in a car you can demand him to take you , what is that about having a 4 seater car for only 1 person ?
No !
We can not let that happen any more !
Houses ?
How is it possible that there are people in the city 's east living in those huge houses ?
Everyone without a nice house go on an reclaim that which is yours !
You built those houses !
And they are enjoying them !
Let 's go and invade those rich people 's properties !
Everything will be returned to the people with my government !
Not to the oligarchs of the empire !
With me you will be able to recover everything that they did not allow you to have !
Because they are greedy and bad !
They are the devil ... ” And so he continued .
It was really insufferable to hear him talking , so he rushed eating his food and got up to go study somewhere else where he could not hear such nonsense .
As soon as he got up he heard many people from the crowd yelling revolutionary slogans .
“Let 's go !
Let 's take the college for ourselves !
Let 's kick the rich people out of our place of study !
They should be in rich people colleges !
Not here ! ” “Out with the oligarchs of the USA ! ” “Return your places in our college !
Give those positions back to the people ! ” “Let 's kill the oligarch teachers that want to make us fail !
They do not want us to graduate ! ” “Let 's take over the college !
Daddy throws his arms around her as his eyes dart about .
If not for the present trouble they would look as if they were sleeping under a cozy blanket beneath the stars .
I gaze at the writing starting to glow on their clothing—a cheap spell he paid for by bartering away our tattered home .
“Leave us alone ! ” I don’t wait to see what will happen next .
I run to join them .
I dive under the cover determined to reach their safe arms and wedge myself in the tiny crack between them .
Sybil can kick me all she wants , I need that space .
“Oh the Heavens ! ” “What is it ? ” asks mom .
“Something is coming , crawling , coming straight out of Mardour.” I don’t need to see his face to know what he means .
I feel the cold wind , but it isn’t the wind .
“Go away ! ” father orders again .
It must be near me because he bats his hand in my direction .
I want to look behind me but I’m too afraid .
For the most part , spirits don’t frighten me unless they are the big ones that take the shape of people .
I like the small , fluffy , shapeless ones .
They remind me of clouds .
I can play with them all day .
But I have a feeling these aren’t those kinds .
I burrow upward through the resistance around me .
Inch by inch I go while daddy bats and screams trying his best to protect us .
I break their grip and feel safe .
I get brave and poke my head out to take a look .
“Daddy ? ” he looks at me with horror in his eyes .
“Go away , ” he screams .
He pushes me down to re-clutch his shivering wife to calm her .
The pushing and screaming are somehow lost on me .
Again , I burrow upward then lift my small head .
Surely he will recognize the black patch of hair as me .
“I said GO AWAY ! ” with his gathered strength he flings me from between them to the hard ground .
I roll several times before coming to a stop a good distance away .
A howling comes from ahead of us .
We are in a demolished park with fallen tree limbs and twigs that jab at me on all sides .
I stifle a scream of pain so as not to alert the spirits that howl so .
My young eyes open wide as I search for a voice to connect with the gruesome howl .
Finding none I travel on scratched and bloody hands and knees in an effort to scamper back to the safety of my parents .
I scream as a red specter flies between my parents and me .
I shake with terror listening to the eerie sound of what may be laughter from the creature .
My heart pounds as I right myself for my journey to safety .
Another specter , this one dark blue with smidgens of yellow that form carnivorous teeth from a hideous mouth shoots by me with a howl of its own .
“Stay back , you evil troll ! ” that comes from father .
Whether out of cruelty or concern I don’t know , the words can never register with me , so I rock on my heels , ready to advance .
I check both directions as if checking for traffic along a busy street .
I hear my mother’s pleas mixed with my father’s .
They seem to be coming from miles away from a deep dark tunnel .
I strain to hear them and keep watch .
My fingers grip the dirt in front of me as I crouch low to the ground , a runner in sprinting position waiting for the sound of the starting gun .
My tongue dips out of my mouth to caress the bite marks of days gone by on my chapped bottom lip .
I draw a long breath .
I listen to my beating heart as it drowns out the distant voices .
I flex my small fingers then dig into the dirt more , tilting forward .
A second red specter flies by , this one freezes my soul by glaring at me as it passes in the night with a wide grin .
Then , before I can think , another aims for me .
I turn and run in a new direction with all the speed I possess .
Ahead of me is a bathroom .
It has no doors .
Three commodes in various states of decay face me .
I don’t have time to think about their condition or stink .
I can feel cold fingers at my back .
I push harder and dive into the middle structure .
I crawl forward and snake my thin body around the back of the commode and draw my body into a tight circle .
I slam my eyes shut with all my might and listen to my panicked breathing and the gruesome howls that flow around the shack .
It takes some time but I calm .
Why I am still alive I have no idea .
I calm further but never move .
Something about the closeness to the ground draws me into a peaceful state .
I feel warm all over , though there is a chill in the night air .
I can hear distant singing—mother singing me a lullaby .
The tug of happiness in my belly radiates outward to my limbs to further soothe and calm me .
As the night draws on , I slip into sleep while slinked around an old commode with more scratches , dents , and chips than I care to count .
The next morning , I lay curled around the commode in the perfect peace of sleep .
Suddenly my eyes fly open .
If not for out of place barrels and the like , no one will have imagined anything occurred .
A twinge of fear dances across my face as my breath catches in my throat .
Can this be like the last time ?
I look up , breathing heavy and fast .
My eyes dart about the playground in the hopes of finding what I know not to be there .
I can pray but it will do no good .
Why did I go to sleep ?
Why didn’t I keep a lookout ?
I spring to my feet wiping moisture from my face and neck as I look about .
Across the ways I don’t see anyone .
The slab my parents had been on is now empty .
A couple of quick chaotic breaths escape my lips .
I sound dreadful and know it .
I close my eyes to center .
Moments later my breathing regulates then slows .
I take my first careful step by extending a bare foot onto the soft grass before me .
It feels right .
I place my other foot on the grass .
After another breath I move toward the empty slab .
Perhaps there is a note .
Approaching the slab I see enchanted writing that protects any who stand on the slab .
At the far edge I see a small folded bag .
Too small to contain food , perhaps it is a letter .
I kneel on the slab and with careful fingers open it .
I pull my raven hair back to peer inside .
My face meshes into confusion .
Turning the bag over , I watch two thin bars fall to the slab .
I shake the bag as if it holds something more .
A sound startles me .
`` What does she tell you about , say , me ? ''
He took a sip from a velvety brown liquid in a beautiful glass .
The glass sparkled in the dim light .
`` Nothing , '' I said .
This seemed to please him .
He shook his head , his thin cream lips pursed in a meaningful smirk , and I felt as though there was something more there beneath the surface than in others .
I both liked and disliked it .
`` What does she say about our church ? ''
`` It 's everything . ''
`` It is everything . ''
He shook his head , smiled , set his glass down on the table , and he took my hands .
One of his palms felt moist and hot , the other cool .
`` And what does she say about you ? ''
At this , I did not reply until he encouraged me and kissed my hands .
`` That I do n't belong here , '' I replied .
`` That 's quite dark . ''
I remember giggling , because I did n't know what he meant .
`` Let us see what God has to say about it , hm ?
Or , at least what something has to say about it . ''
He called another man over , whom I believed to be a waiter , and in a few minutes he returned with a square silver plate .
He set the plate beside Cyrus 's glass and left .
Arranged on that silver platter in a circle were ten red berries .
Cyrus began , `` I do n't think that you should live with your Mother anymore .
Do you understand ? ''
I nodded my head , even though I did not completely .
I was so wrapped up in the moment , I could not consider any of his questions .
`` However , '' he continued , `` I do not know if you should live with me .
So , this will be our way of deciding . ''
He picked up the plate and held it out to me .
`` I want you to choose one , and just one , of these to eat .
And , if you choose appropriately , you will come to live with me .
You will still see your Mother , but you will be less hers , more mine .
You will be like my own .
Alex , my son , will be your brother .
Marian , my wife , will care for you .
With luck , you 'll grow with us , be better , stronger .
If , on the other hand , you choose incorrectly , then you will not come to live with me .
Understand ? ''
I drank him in and nodded my head slowly .
I did n't question , or pout , or cry , or laugh , or smile , because this was Cyrus .
This was Cyrus .
I examined the berries on the plate .
They all looked the same - sparkling red - and brown dots decorated the tops of their heads .
All of them were relatively the same pea size , and they circled the angels reflected in the mirrored plate .
One , though , appeared slightly darker , and I looked at him .
I liked him .
He was prettier than the others , different .
I picked him up and looked at Cyrus questioningly , but I was given no response .
Cyrus simply stared at me , interested and locked on , but contained .
I peered down into the fruit and , after a time , smelled it .
This one made me want to eat him .
I did .
I crunched through it , swallowed its sweetness , and was proud of myself .
I felt confident , and I looked back to Cyrus .
Without smile or frown , he set the plate back on the chair-side table and motioned for the waiter to come and take it .
`` Did I get the right one ? ''
I asked .
`` Oh , let 's give it an hour , '' he said .
I watched him as he smoked .
He gazed at me .
Chapter 3 ATEMPORAL HIGH When I first came to college , it made me quite mad .
After being outside of society for four years , I simply could not stand what they call , `` University life . ''
The problem with it is it never sleeps .
That 's not good for me .
When I became restive enough , I knew what I had to do - tread my way to a drug .
Of course , I had not used since the end of high school .
That was four years ago , and this vast hiatus posed a question : Should I risk destroying my mind yet again ?
Drugs have their benefits and their oh so down-hell costs .
After considering for a while , I decided I would not start injecting and snorting yet again ; but eventually , when the stress of college made me one pulsating and open wound , and I knew I could not make it there another hour , I asked around .
Sure enough , there was a house that a friend of a classmate knew of by a row of apartments close to the University property edge .
It was West campus , though , and not active , mostly land .
Though my educational status was on probation , and I did have to meet with the President of the University every other week ( he takes a very intensive role with the school ) , and though I had to speak with my psychologist every month or more , there was no drug testing .
It was safe .
I was okay to do it .
So , I went .
God , what a shit-hole of a place it was .
The front had two very sad looking windows with a brown door recessed into the house 's face .
The backyard of it was only a sagging porch , and there was no grass .
The blinds looked cemented shut , though I did not see aluminum hugging the glass .
I loathed it , and the very eerie silence surrounding it , and the one porch light out front whose dim glow made the whole thing look diseased and dying and made me feel diseased and dying .
It reminded me too much of home .
I got in that place .
I bought what I wanted - heroin , meth .
I got out , breathed , and looked out at the empty night .
And there she was .
A brilliant and crisp crimson Maserati GranTurismo Convertible Sport .
Hood down , beige leather seating , perfectly polished .
It was like a silent bang in the night .
I looked around myself , wondering if the world had shifted in the few minutes I was gone .
It had .
`` You know , I 've been told , if you stare too long at her , she 'll take your virginity . ''
I looked to the left , by the trunk , where he stood .
The first thing I noticed was the hair .
Orange ?
Red ?
I can never decide .
It was messy , a few inches long , and popped out everywhere in spurts like perpetual fireworks .
His eyes were dark green , his jaw protruded .
Slight dimples ornamented the ends of his long lips like a knife had poked him twice .
The young man who smiled at me held a cigarette in his hand with an elbow propped against his side .
He caught my foot and dug his nails into my ankle cruelly .
“You are a fighter , aren’t you ? ” he said , grabbing my neck with one of his large , cold hands , holding me in place .
“I like that.” “No , I’m really not , ” I whispered hoarsely as I tried to pull his fingers away from my neck .
“Please , you’re hurting me .
Let me go and I’ll do whatever you want.” Sighing , he released my neck .
“You should have thought of that before you crossed me.” Crossed him ?
I opened my mouth to scream , but he clamped his hand over it with incredible speed .
“Uh , uh , uh…” he whispered .
Terrified , I reached between his legs and squeezed as hard as I could .
He roared in pain and released me .
I turned away and began running towards my apartment building , frightened .
“Hey ! ” hollered a man’s voice from an apartment window above .
“You okay down there , miss ?
You need help ? ” Before I could answer , someone grabbed me from behind and I was whisked away into the darkness .
Chapter Two I slept and my dreams were morbidly disturbing .
I was trapped in some kind of old pine coffin , trying desperately to escape .
As I pounded and clawed at the wooden box , I could hear someone digging .
Without a doubt , I knew it was a grave .
My grave .
Each stab at the earth was followed by the sound of dirt being tossed , chilling me to the bone .
When the noise of the shovel stopped , I cried out for help , hoping that it was some kind of mistake “Please ! ” I screamed again , pounding my fists and kicking my feet against the coffin .
“Let me out !
I’m alive in here ! ” Silence .
“Dammit , I’m not dead !
This is a mistake !
Someone help me ! ” No response .
I sobbed .
“I don’t deserve this .
Please… let me out of here.” “Uh , uh , uh…” replied a man , chuckling .
“Should have thought of that before you crossed me.” My eyes snapped open and I sat up .
“Oh , my God , ” I whispered in horror as my eyes adjusted to surroundings that I did not recognize .
I was in a dimly lit barn , lying on an old wool blanket , and there were three others with me .
“Welcome to your nightmare , ” muttered one of the women , who was sitting a few feet away .
She looked to be around my mother’s age , had short dark hair , and a painful-looking shiner under her right eye .
“What’s going on ? ” I asked , getting to my feet .
I brushed away some straw from my knees and straightened up .
“Where am I ? ” The woman with the bruise smiled grimly .
“You’re in the Land of Oz .
Don’t you remember riding the tornado here ? ” I stared at her in confusion .
“I…” Then it all came back to me .
The stranger .
Our fight .
Running and then being grabbed from behind .
The weight of the situation hit me like a sledgehammer .
“Oh , God…someone kidnapped me ? ” “Oh yeah , ” said a girl , walking over .
She was not much older than me , with short blond hair and glasses .
“Obviously , you’re not the only one .
I’m Amy , by the way.” “I’m Emily , ” I answered in a hollow voice .
I looked around the barn , which held no animals or livestock .
Just us .
“I don’t understand , who’s doing this and why ? ” I asked .
“Do you remember the guy who took you ? ” asked Amy .
I thought about the man by the pool .
Obviously he was involved .
“Yeah .
I’m sure it was this guy with dark hair and pale skin .
He approached me by my apartment building and we fought.” “He’s one strong son-of-a-bitch , ” muttered a dark-skinned girl who was lying down on another blanket , staring up at the roof of the barn .
“Something’s not right about him.” “That’s Tara , ” said Amy .
“She actually stabbed him with a switchblade.” Tara turned her face to look at me .
“He didn’t even flinch .
Stabbed the bastard in the hand and it was as if nothing happened .
It was some freaky shit.” “Uh , did he kidnap all of you ? ” I asked , not recalling the guy having any kind of wound on his hand when he assaulted me .
“No , ” replied Amy , lowering her voice .
“There are more of them.” She looked towards the roof of the barn .
“They’re probably watching us right now.” I felt like I was in some kind of twisted horror movie , only this was real .
I stared up at the dark shadows of the barn and shivered .
“Why are they doing this ? ” “I don’t know , ” said Amy .
“We were all brought in here within the last twenty-four hours.” “Have you tried to escape ? ” I said , lowering my voice as I eyed the barn door .
Tara snorted .
“Hell no , genius .
That didn’t cross any of our minds.” “Be nice , ” said the woman with the bruise .
“She’s just as confused as the rest of us and doesn’t deserve any more abuse.” Tara closed her eyes and sighed .
“Yeah , I know .
Sorry .
I’m just not in the mood for this shit anymore.” “We’ve tried getting out of here , ” said Amy .
“But they’ve locked us in from the outside .
And…” her lips began to tremble .
“Another woman tried climbing up to the loft right after I arrived .
But , something killed her up there.” “What ? ” I asked , horrified .
I looked up towards the loft , which seemed so dark and menacing .
“There’s something up there , ” she whispered in an ominous voice , stepping closer to me .
“Gloria , the gal who climbed the ladder , she screamed bloody murder when she reached the top .
Tried climbing back down , but something pulled her back and dragged her away from the edge .
We couldn’t see exactly what was happening.” She grimaced .
“But , we all heard it.” I swallowed .
“Something ? ” She nodded .
“We heard it growling and then it sounded like Gloria was wrestling with it.” Her eyes filled with tears .
“I’ll never forget the sounds coming from up there – her cries and something that sounded like hissing .
I was so scared , I almost peed my pants.” “We were all scared , ” said the older woman , shaking her head .
“What happened next ? ” I asked .
Amy wiped a couple of tears from her cheek .
“Um , I think she tried crawling back towards the ladder , but never made it.” “I take it you guys were too scared to do much ? ” I asked bluntly .
“I mean , I’m sure I’d have been scared to death myself.” “Well , I was going to try and help , ” said Tara .
“But then I saw all of the blood.” I shivered .
“Blood ? ” Amy pointed towards the top of the ladder .
“Yeah , if you stand back far enough and get on your tippy-toes , you can kind of see Gloria’s shoulder .
There’s blood there .
Lots of it.” I stepped back and looked .
Sure enough , someone’s hand appeared to be reaching for the edge , as if she’d been crawling away from something .
I couldn’t really see her shoulder , however .
Though ridiculous looking , the sight of Jeff Haas in her bedroom naked , except for the short , green and blue plaid Catholic-school-girl skirt she’d coerced him into wearing , was starting to turn her on .
Guys will let you do anything to them if they think it is foreplay .
“What are you doing with that ? ” Jeff said when he caught sight of her .
She froze for a moment before she said , “Tara texted me.” And since they exchanged texts roughly every half-hour , she silently blessed plausibility and routine .
Jeff’s expression lightened , but then his brow furrowed .
Oh no , he’s having an actual thought .
“But it didn’t ring.” She held up the razor-thin device and gave it a dainty shake .
“Got it on vibrate.” He suddenly had that “Oh” expression on his handsome face .
Flimsy excuse bought , thank god .
I wonder… will he fall for it again when I ask him to kiss my Zac Efron poster ?
That would be a hilarious shot to text everyone when she ultimately tired of stringing him along and broke up with him .
She wasn’t about to sleep with him , not now or ever .
She was saving herself for when she married a multimillionaire , a prince , or for her senior year in college .
By then she’d know whether she would be a kept woman , or if she’d be the one doing the keeping .
She had plans : places to go , things to buy .
But if he’s a good boy , he might make it to second or third base in that get up .
She’d told him to ditch the underwear , and she was now dying to see if he had .
An “accidental” grope would tell her .
Jeff was captain of the football team in the fall and captain of the wrestling team in the winter .
To say he was buff would be a waste of the language .
Jeff’s shoulders were huge , broad , and marble hard , as was his smooth , hairless chest , and bulging arms .
All of it wrapped up in the dreamiest tan skin .
A strict diet of cheddar-chili fries , cheeseburgers and pizza had failed to obscure his washboard stomach with even the thinnest layer of fat .
His hair was short and brown , and could never , ever be messed up—she’d tried , in earnest .
And with a face like his you’d think he wouldn’t have to play dress-up just to get some action .
This , most of all , amused her .
Jeff Haas could have any girl in the school , and yet there he was , letting her degrade and humiliate him , all for the chance to get in her pants .
Well , he is in my skirt , or at least my mother’s skirt from when she actually was a Catholic school girl .
What more did he really expect tonight ?
Jeff really looked great shirtless , and his legs were not only strong but rather shapely , accented by a thin dusting of brown hair .
She had to give herself snaps .
Not two weeks into her senior year and she had the captain of the football team in naughty school-girl drag .
She could feel heat rise up under her skin and lick up her spine and ribcage .
Her cheeks burned .
She looked into the mirror of her vanity ; she was starting to blush .
She smiled into the mirror .
Ever since she could remember , the mirror had always been her friend : she had yet to find one that wasn’t .
“Oh , dude ... ” She looked up to see that Jeff had caught his reflection in the looking glass , and from the panic in his eyes he didn’t like the view .
Just then two men with guns drawn and bulletproof vests with FBI emblazoned on them smashed through her bedroom door .
Their guns were big , sinisterly shiny , and pointed right at her .
She shrieked and dropped her cell phone , and shot up out of her chair .
The two agents moved in forcing Lucy and Jeff back to the opposite wall .
“I wasn’t really going to have sex with him… , ” she blurted .
“I swear ! ” From behind her Jeff muttered , “Oh shit ... ” The two FBI agents shot Jeff an ugly , disgusted glance , both agents moving their big shiny firearms between Jeff and Lucy .
They seemed unable to discern which was more of a threat : the muscular , nearly naked seventeen-year-old boy in the skirt , or the girl who’d gotten him into it .
“I can’t believe you’re going to arrest me for maybe having sex.” She shook her head , as tears welled up in her eyes .
“It’s so unfair ! ” Thoughts rushed through her head , none making much sense , a few making her want to throw up .
Then suddenly she screamed a hysterical , “Daddy ! ” The agents gave each other a look , and then one shook his head bitterly as he pressed the button of his walkie-talkie .
“The girl has been found , and there’s an unidentified teenaged male ... will detain both until told otherwise.” The other agent , with silver hair at his temples , told Jeff , “Son , put some clothes on.” And Jeff leapt at the chance to get out of the skirt .
Thankfully he pulled his jeans on under the mini skirt before pulling the skirt off .
Hopping around , he tried to stuff himself into his jeans .
Her head began to spin , her breathing quickened…she was starting to hyperventilate .
Get a hold of yourself… Jeff was buttoning his fly when Lucy’s mother gave out a blood-curdling scream , and they both turned to the bedroom door .
Her mother’s screams turned to sobs of crying , and suddenly her father appeared in the hall by her doorway , his arms handcuffed behind his back , and another FBI agent pulled him to a halt in front of her door .
His usually perfectly pressed clothes were rumpled , the shoulder of his silk dress shirt was torn , and buttons had popped off .
A thin line of blood ran down his chin from his mouth .
She stared with bewildered eyes at her father , not able to comprehend why the FBI was taking him away in handcuffs .
He looked in through her door , his face angry one moment and then horror-stricken the next .
He looked on the verge of tears—but then he caught sight of Jeff , still standing there , still shirtless , with his jeans still open .
Her father’s gaze turned steely , and red hot anger jerked back into his eyes .
All he said was “Lucy ... ” The anger and disappointment in his voice was staggering .
It said : You’re not my good little girl .
Not you !
Not anymore ... She couldn’t move , couldn’t speak ; she couldn’t even breathe .
She just stood there , staring at the angry stranger who had replaced her father .
A moment later another FBI agent joined the one with her father , and together they pushed him down the hallway in front of them .
Her panicked scream made Jeff and the two FBI agents flinch .
She ran toward her bedroom door , but one of the agents grabbed her around the waist and kept her anchored to the spot as she cried out , “No , Daddy ... no ! ” She didn’t know how many times she blubbered and bawled this , or how long the agent held her .
She finally got control enough of herself to say , “Please ...
I have to see him .
I have to explain.” I have to tell him nothing happened .
Please , please , please !
“Miss , ” the other agent said and lowered his firearm .
“He’s already gone.” Gone ?
The word echoed in her head as her human restraint slowly let her go , and then sat her down on her bed like a rag doll .
He’s gone ... he’s just gone ... Daddy’s gone ... She pulled her knees up to her chest and pushed her face into them .
She couldn’t remember the last time she’d sat like this .
When she was younger she’d sit like this when she was upset or unsure of herself .
But she hadn’t let those thoughts touch her in so long .
Those feelings were so foreign , and so suddenly painful , that she shuddered when she finally took a breath .
The hot rivulets of her tears cascaded effortlessly down her face , yet she refused to utter a single sound .
She did not register it when the agents sent Jeff away , or when they searched through her room , checked the air conditioning vents , and pawed through her private bathroom .
She also didn’t realize when they’d left her sitting on her bed in her room .
She sat there with her tear-wet cheek pressed against her knee , alone .
~*~ Across town , high above the city in a building still being built , Delia waited for him .
Standing at the edge of the scaffolding she peered out into the night .
Nothing separated her from the winds that whipped through her long blonde hair .
She did not turn as he approached , yet he was certain she knew he was there .
Gabriel strode toward her , breathing heavily from the climb—the service elevator was disabled when the construction crew vacated for the night .
He ignored the sinking feeling that threatened to plummet him to his death , and moved up behind her .
He wrapped his arms around her and pulled her against him .
“Why always so high , Delia ? ” he said breathily .
“Are you trying to kill me ? ” He could tell she was smiling .
“Testing you , maybe… or maybe I’m testing your love.” He gave a little bark of laughter .
“How much more must you test that ?
By now you should know how much I want you.” He turned her around and gazed into her cool blue eyes .
Her arms were bare , her flesh cold to his touch .
He hadn’t gotten used to that enough to ignore it .
But someday he hoped he would .
She purposely closed her eyes .
Heard you’re feeling better–got rid of that flu bug .
Good .
Jump right in with both feet and hit the ground running .
Impress me .
Help us stop this bathroom butcher–quick ! ” He looked directly at O’Hara , putting on his ill-fitting fatherly face .
“You did real well on your test .
Pretty smart cookie .
I hear you want to be like MacLeod here .
You know , Grim Island’s so small ; he doubles as our one and only resident detective .
We don’t even make him wear his uniform except to impress the ladies .
Normally not much need for his special skills anyhow .
Until now .
Give him a hand catching this bastard , and maybe we’ll see if we can make your partnership permanent .
Give MacLeod your best .
That’s it kiddies .
Dismissed .
Move on out there and catch this beast ! ” * * * * “Detective MacLeod , I’m ready to go .
If you’ll just tell me where to begin ? ” God , he was a hunk .
Just look at that insufferably sexy grin .
With that unruly lock of dirty blond hair brushing his tanned forehead , he was Mr. Bad Boy personified .
Why couldn’t she bring home somebody like him ?
She couldn’t help wondering if he was seeing anyone .
Did he find her attractive ? ” Just MacLeod .
You ready to go ? ''
`` Lead the way , detective .
I know I 've got a lot to learn , and from what I 've heard , you 're just the guy to teach me . ''
* * * * By day’s end O’Hara was ready to tumble into bed .
Unfortunately , alone .
Her day had been hectic , and at times annoyingly frustrating .
MacLeod spent a good part of the morning calling her Kathleen .
He thought it was a pretty name , like her , he said .
She hated it .
It was something her father insisted on calling her .
To think of it coming from dear old dad’s lips , from that disgusting drunk , made her cringe .
They’d gotten nowhere on the case , though she did get to take notes during two interviews .
She’d made coffee , and filed the interview reports .
Exciting .
He managed to wheedle out of her that she lived in a dilapidated tenement between the abandoned Murphy mill and one of the town’s oldest neighborhoods .
She shrugged , admitting that as a single mom , it was all she could afford .
He lived right on the coast in his own home , alone .
Unmarried .
He revealed little else about his personal life until lunch .
MacLeod did buy her that , but they were joined by his girlfriend , Miss Rodriguez , a sixth grade teacher at Constance Paine Elementary .
She seemed nice , beautiful and sweet .
They’d been going out for about five months , so she couldn’t be all that prim and proper .
She had to be putting out ; Kat couldn’t picture a hunk like Jamie waiting around forever .
Damn !
Why were all the good guys taken ?
Still , it was her most exciting day on the force so far , and she was exhausted .
Abigail had run downstairs to start supper as soon as she 'd dragged herself home , so Kat paid her geeky brother , Eric , asking how Brian had been .
He looked at her funny , and then turned to go ; insisting Brian had been no trouble at all .
She 'd walked across her kitchen to get his money , sensing him watching her ass as she moved .
Coming back , she 'd paid him , flashing a warm smile as a bonus .
She was kind of flattered that this nice kid found her hot .
Again , she wondered about MacLeod .
She tumbled into her own bed as soon as she brushed her teeth .
Maybe she’d have some sexy fantasies about her new partner while she slept .
Within minutes , Kat was snoring her way through dreamland .
* * * * Around 3 in the morning , Kat woke .
Someone was in the room .
Kat laid corpse still , trying not to let her intruder know she was awake .
Her service revolver was under her freshly laundered uniform , holstered with the safety on .
Loaded , but being over there it might as well be on Mars .
There it was again .
Pressure on the bed , tightening the blankets she’d wrapped around herself , as though someone had decided to sit on the bed beside her .
Unconsciously , Kat stiffened , getting ready to run .
Holding her breath , she waited .
The pregnant silence shattered as her phone rang .
She was out of her bed , answering her cell ; subtle pressures , and touching intruders completely forgotten .
At first there was just heavy breathing on the phone , followed quickly by a nasally voice she’d hoped never to hear again crooning her name .
Brad .
She slammed the cell shut , severing the connection , wondering how the bastard had found her this time .
Although she swore she’d not sleep another wink , within twenty minutes , she did .
She didn’t notice any further disturbances that night , though in the morning , her gown was wet again .
There were fresh stinging red marks .
In her usual rush , she paid no attention to their subtle pattern .
Chapter 3 MacLeod was already late .
Hitting the Ford 's concealed police lights ; he began to weave his way through the snarled traffic of what the local islanders jokingly referred to as downtown .
A young soccer mom in a new Durango chose the wrong moment to back out of her parking space , and Jamie expertly swerved around the red Dodge , narrowly avoiding clipping her rear end .
A quick sideward glance assured him the neatly wrapped bouquet of deep purple irises were still safely nestled in the passenger seat .
Long out of season and having to be ferried in from the mainland , they’d cost him a king’s ransom , but then , the woman in the flower shop had remained open an extra twenty minutes waiting for him .
Late as he was , he might just need a pricey peace offering .
Hitting the edge of town , he kicked his speed up a couple of notches .
Six minutes later , he sped off down the road , bound for her school , his passing vehicle swallowed by the approaching squall .
DeCosta had wasted his day , sticking him and his new partner out at Lost Hope Park in case the Tattoo killer was unimaginative enough to use the same killing ground twice .
Right .
There’d been four killings so far on the island–Jamie had been on island for three–god , how he missed Salem–and each time the killer had gone to great length to hide his post mortem tattoo in a different concealed place on the corpse .
Not once had any of the crime scenes been repetitive or even similar .
So MacLeod and O’Hara had spent the afternoon watching the sky darken into a sour frown and begin weeping a slow relentless drizzle .
Bored out of their minds , they’d turned to each other , discovering not only that neither was an island native , but they actually enjoyed each other’s company .
Jamie pumped Kathleen first , entranced by her face as much as her words , uncomfortably realizing how much he wanted to bruise her lips with his own .
When she pointed out that he was pretty dark for someone of Scottish ancestry , he’d told her of his Indian heritage .
Of course she wanted to know which local tribe of Native American ; Wampanoag , Narragansett , or a tribe further afield ?
Jamie realized then this had little to do with his year round tan .
Though she claimed to burn like a french fry if she chose to lie in the sun at the beach , the predatory gleam in her eyes matched his own .
In an effort to avoid any embarrassing entanglements with his partner , MacLeod steered the conversation back on course toward their case .
He brought up the fact that all the victims had an impaled black heart tattooed somewhere on their bodies , a fact they’d so far kept out of The Journal and the island’s own Crier .
“I know MacLeod .
I saw the surveillance video , remember .
I even saw the tattoo .
She turned to glare at the young man .
`` God in heaven , David , you do n't need to be scaring me like that ! ''
David was a good five inches taller , with considerably less mass than Sofia 's short , round form .
He was boyishly handsome , all muscle , and older than he looked .
David wore his usual insolent smile , with dark eyes shining from under long hair .
He seemed to be a good man ; he worked hard .
Definitely a good prospect for her daughter Josie .
`` You would do well to take your own advice , '' Sofia scolded .
`` Even if Mr. O'Malley does think he 's some sort of English lord transplanted to Ohio… Well anyway , we can do nothing but our work .
As you see , I 'm cleaning potatoes .
Again .
What are you doing up so early ? ''
`` The horses were kind of restless this morning and Edwin , ah , Mr. O'Malley , asked me to check up on them before the gentlemen decide on their hunt for this afternoon .
He could n't track down that lout Vernon again . ''
`` Now , David , do n't be unkind , '' Sofia chided .
`` Who knows what that poor man has gone through ? ''
David threw Sofia a look .
`` Oh , I know that does n't excuse the man 's laziness , but… '' She shook her head .
Sofia had a hard time not defending Vernon , the groundskeeper .
He was a short , craggy man that looked like her late husband .
He was the only member of the Manor 's original staff to remain after the previous owner 's death .
Mr. O'Malley pegged him as a drunk , and joked that Vernon stayed on at the Manor only because he was too drunk to realize his former employer was dead .
Sofia only talked with Vernon on a couple of occasions .
He seemed clever if somewhat muddled .
Sofia did n't think he was drunk when she talked to him , unless he hid it well .
Vernon was just…different with a definite knack for disappearing , especially when there was work to be done .
That was something Sofia just could n't abide , even if Vernon did look a little like her dear departed Angelo .
`` Well David , can I get you some breakfast before I 'm swamped by the ladies ?
They should be up soon . ''
`` No .
Thank you , Sofia .
I think I 'll get started on the west wing cellar before I get involved in tacking those horses . ''
`` David , before you go , have you seen my Josie this morning ? ''
`` No Sofia , I have n't seen her yet this morning .
I think I heard Mrs. O'Malley 's bell when I went out .
Josie 's probably still tending to her . ''
`` Yes , probably so . ''
Sofia turned back to her potatoes and her muttering , and David left through the kitchen .
Yes , their Mistress liked to be up , dressed , and breakfasted long before the others were up .
`` I 'd better get to cooking .
Get the tea on .
Start the rolls .
Oh Lord , help me through another day . ''
In her opinion , and David 's , as well , Mr. O'Malley was a couple of cups short of a cupboard .
Sofia supposed that suddenly becoming a landowner might do that to a person .
How would she react if she suddenly found that some long forgotten relative bequeathed an old , decrepit country estate to her ?
Well , she sure would n't pack up her new bride , set up residence there , and have four people do the work of an entire staff .
Sofia was n't Mr. O'Malley .
She was sure most of his problem was simply because he was Irish .
Sofia did n't hear the woman come in from outside .
She caught sight of the light blue dress out of the corner of her eye and was startled by the movement .
`` Oh !
Miss Harris !
I 'm sorry , ma'am , I did n't know you were up yet .
Can I get you anything ? ''
Lucinda Harris spun around and gave Sofia a look that resembled a grimace more than a smile .
As Miss Harris idly brushed her hands on the skirt of her dress , Sofia frowned .
The usually impeccable , if unfashionable , Miss Harris was decidedly unkempt this morning .
Aside from smudges on her skirt , escaped tresses of strawberry blonde hair flew around her face .
Sofia was almost embarrassed to notice dried mud on the lady 's shoes .
For a second , Miss Harris almost seemed a different person .
The moment was quickly gone , and the lady 's manner corrected anything her appearance was lacking .
`` Yes , you most certainly can . ''
Her voice was icy , its tone implying more confidence than the words themselves .
It was comforting to Sofia .
Women like Lucinda Harris were easy to understand .
Nothing was ever right for them , so one simply did what was necessary and nothing more .
`` I 'd like some breakfast , '' Miss Harris snapped .
`` I 'd like eggs and toast and ham and coffee .
Be sure the ham is n't overcooked this morning and do n't leave the eggs runny . ''
Miss Harris grimaced again .
`` And see if you can manage cocoa .
Send that to my room immediately .
You do have cocoa , do n't you ? ''
`` Yes ma'am , we do , '' said Sofia , but Lucinda Harris turned away , brushed at the dirt on her dress , and strode out the door .
`` Hmm , rather a big breakfast for a lady , '' Sofia commented to herself .
`` Well , I suppose if a lady is going to be out this early in the day , she 's going to work up a hunger .
A shame getting her dress dirty like that .
I 'm going to be the one cleaning it I 'm sure , not that I do n't have enough to do— '' '' Morning , Mother . ''
Josie bounded in from the kitchen .
`` Gracious , child !
Is everyone out to kill the cook this morning ?
You and David are going to make my heart stop ! ''
`` Sorry . ''
Unlike her mother , Josie was slight and pale with mousy brown hair .
She took after her departed father in looks and brains : neither of them had much of either .
She did have her mother 's rare gray eyes .
Maybe young David would n't mind a plain and flighty girl .
`` Mrs. O'Malley is going to be down soon .
Is there anything I can help with ? ''
`` Of course , girl .
Miss Harris would like some breakfast brought to her room .
Ham , eggs , toast , coffee , and cocoa .
Start with boiling the milk for the cocoa . ''
`` Yes , Mother . ''
Josie took a saucepan from the rack where Sofia left them to dry .
`` What a strange woman Miss Harris is .
I almost ran into her in the hall .
She seemed to have a good night .
She looked very refreshed , even if her dress was all muddy . ''
“What is it ? ” he asked when I didn’t say anything .
“Impatient are we ? ” I asked , putting a hand on his jaw and stroking lightly .
“Very.” “Well , ” I whispered , drawing out the word .
“I like to eat brains.” He stiffened .
“What ? ” he spluttered .
“Like yours , ” I said cheerfully and wrenched his head all the way around before he knew what hit him .
I laughed at the sound of broken bones and dug my fingers into his neck , tearing at the flesh until the head parted from the body .
“Brain , ” I hissed excitedly , and I shoved my hand into the mass of tissues until I found what I was looking for .
“Brain brain brain ! ” I yanked out the brain , and my fangs flashed , as I quickly devoured the bloody cauliflower-like organ with glee .
Laughing , I banged my head against the dirty brick wall , as all of the rogue’s memory washed over me .
“Babies , ” I said breathlessly .
“He likes babies and young boys.” I banged my head harder and licked the blood off my fingers .
“He killed lots of humans , mostly blonds .
He hates blonds.” I stopped banging my head and bent to the body .
“I love you too , Randy .
I like your hideout , ” I said and giggled .
“Will your friends be sad ?
Wandy won’t be coming back .
No no no , no coming back.” I picked up the head and lifted it to my mouth , letting the remaining blood pour down my throat .
I sighed when there was no more drop left .
I tossed the head against the other wall and tilted my head to the side .
I licked the blood off my lips and walked to the head and picked it back up .
I turned and waved to Sven and Liana .
They groaned and made their way over to me .
“Oh sweetheart , ” Sven said , sighing .
“What have you done this time ? ” “I’d done nothing , sire.” I held up the head .
“Trophy ? ” Liana shuddered and made her way to the body .
Sven stopped in front of me , and I hugged the head tightly , crushing it even more in the process .
“Trophy ? ” I repeated .
“No , no trophy , ” he said and held his hand out for the head .
“Please , give it to me.” I dug my fingers into the eye socket and pluck out an eye .
I held it up to him .
Sven groaned and took it from me .
I pluck out the other eye and gave it to him .
Giggling , I ripped off the ear and handed it over .
It turned into a full-blown laugh at the expression on his face .
I doubled over , clutching at the head .
When I was done laughing my ass off , I straightened and ripped off the other ear .
“Jordana , ” he groaned , taking the ear from me .
“Please , just give me the whole thing.” I pouted .
“But I am not done yet , sire .
I still have a nose and a tongue left to go.” He looked up toward the sky .
“Make it quick.” “Of course , ” I said and bit off the nose and spat it at him .
He caught it as I reached into the mouth and yanked out the tongue .
“See ?
All done.” I flipped the head over and peered inside .
“But no more brain , ” I said , sighing .
“Jesus Christ , ” Liana hissed , shuddering .
She held out her hand , and I dropped the head .
She caught it and flashed to the other side of the alley .
I heard a sound of a whoosh as she started a small fire .
“Come , ” Sven said , holding out his hand to me .
I grabbed it , and we made our way over to her .
He tossed the ears , eyes , nose , and tongue into the fire , and we watched them burned into ashes .
I smiled and kicked gravel and dirt into the fire .
Liana straightened and came to stand on my other side .
She put a hand on my shoulder , and I turned to her , a grin on my face .
She cupped my chin and inclined her head in thought .
“You are a monster , ” she muttered under her breath , and I giggled .
“Jordana ? ” “Yes ? ” “Please , will you tell us what happened to you ? ” I stilled , not even breathing .
Sven put a hand on me , and everything went dark .
We appeared back in the kitchen , and Liana gave me a pleading look .
I ducked from between them .
I strode to the window and looked out .
“There is not much to tell , ” I said tonelessly as my sires came to stand behind me .
“Only blood , pain , and darkness .
What else is there to know ? ” “Many things , ” Sven said softly .
“I don’t have much to tell , but none the less , I shall let you inside.” I slowly turned to them .
“I’d like Tristan and Ari to see and hear this as well , ” I said , and Sven blinked .
“Are you sure ? ” he asked .
“Oh , I’m quite sure , ” I hissed .
“Because I wish not to relive it for a second , or a third , or a fourth , or you get the idea.” I laughed .
“What’s the point ?
I’m reliving it over and over every day .
My poor , poor , precious mind , how ever could I survive ? ” I sighed and leaned against the window , the one I didn’t so spectacularly break with my head .
Sven looked at me for a very long , long time and then nodded .
“Very well , ” he said slowly , and his gaze went distant .
When he refocused on me , he once again nodded .
“They are waiting .
Whenever you are ready , you may begin.” I nodded , and my gaze went to the ceiling , and stayed there .
“I will take you back to 1801 , ” I said , and dropped every defensive guard I had in place .
And as Sven , Liana , Tristan , and Ari slipped inside my head , I closed my eyes , ignoring the startled hisses from Ari and Liana , and the angry snarls of Sven and Tristan .
And smiled .
* * * * * * Chapter Two Poughkeepsie , New York , 1801 I inhaled the crisp night air , saturated with the smell of fresh hay , and the sound of horses whinnying in the distance .
Turning to the sound , I made my way toward the stable .
Opening the door , I stepped inside and straight for one of the stalls .
“Stellar , ” I crooned , stepping into one of the four stalls .
Stellar , a stallion , coat as black as night , looked up at my approach .
I reached out a hand , and he trotted forward .
I patted his head and smiled .
He snorted as tingle ran up and down my back , telling me that someone was either directly behind me or approaching .
I grabbed a curry comb and started grooming the horse .
“Sire , ” I said without turning .
“Jordana , ” Sven said , coming to stand beside me .
“How are you on this very night ? ” he asked , reaching out to pet Stellar .
“Have you fed as of yet ? ” My stomach clenched at the reminder .
“I have not .
I was going to perhaps feed after I go out for a bit of a short ride .
It won’t be long.” He sighed .
“Why do you hold off on doing such a minor task ? ” I shrugged .
Not even if she lost a bet would she take a bite of it .
“Everything tastes like horse urine.” She said , “Now what do you want ?
I ain’t got all day.” I wanted to ask her what other plans she had for the day and whether it involved finding a cure for cancer that she didn’t have all day , but knew I would just be asking for trouble .
“I’ll have a tuna salad , please.” I said and smiled .
She’s obviously overworked and never expected her life to land her working at a high school cafeteria as a lunch lady .
She rolled her eyes at my smile and dished me some of the tuna salad .
I looked down at the splatted food on my plate which looked more like something that got run over by a truck than tuna salad .
“Enjoy.” She grunted and handed me my food .
“I always do.” I said with a smile .
She grunted again and said , “That salad tastes like vomit anyway.” Hmmmm… not exactly what I want to picture while eating a gooey salad , but at least she had a bit of humour in her .
I flashed her my pearly whites and left .
I think our daily bickering was the closest thing I had to a friend at school .
How sad was my life that the only person I could stomach to talk to was the lunch lady ?
Where to sit ?
The cafeteria was full and I did not really like sitting with people I did not know .
Some people made the strangest noises while eating .
That probably had to be the sound that annoyed me the most – hearing other people masticating their food like they were chewing pieces of glass .
To my left I saw a freshman sitting at an empty table .
Did he want to sit on his own or was he ostracized ?
I bet I could get through my lunch at a table with one person ?
Just as long as he did not want to chat with me .
I walked over to the table and noticed that he looked up as I got closer – this was a bad idea .
He smiled at me as I sat down and I nodded back .
The freshman looked down at his food and kept to himself .
If he kept to himself we would get along just fine .
I glanced at him for a moment , but did not recognize him .
Perhaps he was new ?
Not that I actually knew the freshmen , but he seemed like a bit of a loner himself .
Maybe this lunch arrangement would go smoothly after all .
I picked up my plastic fork and picked at the tuna salad .
Two thoughts came to mind ; was the salad made from real tuna or was it some unknown animal meat ?
And why did the school not trust us enough to give us real cutlery ?
Plastic forks never lasted an entire lunch .
“I’m Richard.” I heard the boy across the table say .
Great .
Just what I was trying to avoid .
Now I had to speak to him .
I slowly looked up at the boy .
He was smiling at me – okay his mouth was more braces than teeth , but it was still a smile nonetheless .
I nodded and said , “Zac.” I lowered my head again and took a bite from the salad .
The lunch lady was right .
The salad had a funny taste .
It was a mixture of odd flavours with a slight hint of tuna aftertaste .
Who made this ?
Was this product even legal ?
Was it something that the CDC should investigate ?
“I’m new here.” Richard spoke again .
“Welcome.” I said without looking up .
I wasn’t really in the mood to talk to him .
I just wanted to eat my odd salad and get it over with .
“Thank you.” Richard spoke again with a hint of excitement in his voice .
Perhaps it was not too late to take my mystery salad and go sit elsewhere ?
“I transferred from Sagebrush.” Richard said .
Why did he insist talking to me ?
Did my poise not tell him I was not interested in making new friends ?
I already had one friend and one friend is plenty .
“Cool” I said , but I did not look up .
“My dad made us move.” Richard said , “I hate moving .
We move every few months .
He says he’s looking for the right place to settle down.” I nodded and continued eating the vomit salad .
Perhaps if I drowned out the sound of his voice with my chewing he might stop ?
It was worth a try .
“Would you like to be friends ? ” Richard asked , “I don’t know anyone here.” I stopped eating and thought a moment .
There had to be something wrong with this boy for wanting to befriend someone who gave him the cold shoulder .
If he was mentally disturbed we might get along .
I hated normal people .
Perhaps I should give him the benefit of the doubt ?
I slowly raised my head and stared at him while chewing the last bit of salad in my mouth .
“You want to be friends with me ? ” I asked confused .
“Yes.” Richard said , “You’re the first person to talk to me since I got here.” “When did you get here ? ” I asked .
“Two weeks ago.” Richard said .
Two weeks ago ?
How is it possible that nobody spoke to him in two weeks ?
I grunted a few words at him and I was the one that spoke to him the most ?
How sad was that ?
It was even sadder than my friendship with the lunch lady .
Maybe the two of us had more in common than I initially thought .
“Really.” I said , “I’m sorry .
People here can be real jerks.” Richard smiled and said , “So I’ve noticed , but you seem nice.” I guess I was a nice guy ?
I’ve never been told I was a nice guy by anyone except my mom , which didn’t count .
I am pretty sure she only said that because she was my mother .
“Thanks.” I said , “You too.” “You want to come over after school ? ” He asked excited .
I lowered my head and ate my salad again .
Why would I want to go over to his house ?
And do what ?
Play dominoes ?
And then he said the words that I’ve longed to hear for months .
“I have the new Zombies from hell game.” Richard said , “Zombies from hell 3.” I stopped chewing .
It was as if every muscle in my body froze with anticipation .
A cold shiver ran down my spine .
Could he be for real ?
That game was expensive .
And what were the odds of meeting another guy into zombie games ?
Perhaps it was a prank ?
I paused for a moment waiting for someone to burst out laughing , but that never happened .
I glanced at him through my hair that hung like curtains before my eyes ( I hate when they do that ) and smiled at him .
“Sure.” I said .
2 Richard lived a few blocks from my house – who would have thought ?
He lived in a double storey house with his father .
It was one of those houses you could bet belonged to a loving family – white picket fence bordering a picture perfect green lawn .
He was right there , ” Mike explained .
“I didn’t see anything , man .
That crosswalk was empty .
It’s probably stress , you’ve been working 12-hour days on this project .
Let’s get a few drinks in you and relieve some of it.” Mike made a left turn .
Just two blocks , then they’d be at O’Guinn’s .
Terry was right , he had been stressed all week ; he pushed the incident at the stoplight to the back of his mind .
- Around two a.m. , Terry and Mike stumbled out of O’Guinn’s Pub , having enjoyed their share of $ 5 pitchers , appetizers and shots .
They would have to get the car tomorrow .
“Heyterry , wan na callacav ? ” Mike slurred .
“I’m too drive to drunk.” Both men burst out in hysterical laughter .
Mike , who was still standing by a miracle , tried to catch Terry as his friend’s knees buckled and found that he couldn’t do it , falling as well .
After another minute of inebriated laughter , they got their wits about them and stood back up , Terry leaning on the streetlight .
They hadn’t gone more than ten feet from the pub , which was the only light source aside from the streetlight .
“Ok , I’ll call a cab , ” Terry said .
He took out his phone and did his best to dial .
A few agonizing minutes later , he was able to reach a cab company and arrange for a pickup in fifteen minutes .
It was a small miracle that he had even been able to do that .
$ 5 pitchers were a good way to get really , really wasted .
“Ok , Mike , we’re set.” “Awesome .
I’m going to regret all this drinking tomorrow morning .
My head is going to—” Mike cut himself off .
Standing across the street was that same kid he had almost hit earlier in the day .
“Hey Terry .
TERRY.” Terry came-to from his drunken stupor .
“Cav ere yet ? ” “No man , it’s that kid , he’s across the street.” Terry squinted , drunk enough that his vision wasn’t the greatest .
“I doan seeitman.” “Really ?
He’s right there ! ” Mike pointed across the street at a closed Kinko’s that was sandwiched between two coffee shops .
As if he sensed that he was being looked at , the kid raised his head and made eye contact with Mike .
Mike froze at the stare .
He didn’t want to look at it , but he didn’t want to look away .
The kid had piercing green eyes unlike any Mike had ever seen .
It was similar to the radioactive plutonium that Homer Simpson worked with .
They even seemed to glow faintly in the darkness .
He felt like the kid was boring a hole into his very being with that look , as if he were trying to learn everything he could about Mike by looking through his memories like a movie .
He fruitlessly tried to pry his eyes away from the kid , but staring into those green orbs was like an opiate .
It just felt too good to stop .
HOOOOONNNKKK .
The sound startled both Mike , who finally pried his eyes away from the kid , and Terry , who had fallen asleep leaning on the streetlight .
The cab had arrived .
Had it really been fifteen minutes already ?
How long had he been staring at that kid ?
And how long had the cabbie been waiting ?
“So , are you getting in ? ” Asked the cab driver with a heavy Indian accent .
“I’m sorry man , how long have you been waiting ? ” Mike asked .
“I’ve been waiting for you drunks for over a minute now , just sitting here , ” he said , irritated .
“Get the hell in the cab or go away.” “My bad .
Terry , get your ass in here.” “Wha ?
Are we home already ? ” “No , you moron , the cab’s here .
Get the hell in.” Mike and Terry stumbled into the cab .
Mike gave the cabbie instructions to his house—he wasn’t going to bother dropping Terry off until tomorrow—and sat back .
Next to him , Terry was rummaging through his pockets and took out a pack of Marlboros .
“Hey ! ” Yelled the cabbie .
“Can’t you Americans read ? ” Mike and Terry looked at the sign on the backseat : “No smoking unless you’ve got one for me.” Terry chuckled and resigned himself to having to surrender one of his precious cancer sticks .
“Well played , sir , ” Terry handed him a cigarette .
“You want one Mike ? ” “Why not ?
Thanks.” Less than 10 minutes later , they had reached Mike’s house .
He dragged a semi-conscious Terry onto his couch and left him there to pass out for the night .
Then , Mike grabbed a glass of water and went to his room to do the same .
- Mike had always had vivid dreams .
Throughout his youth he’d often wake up screaming in fear , only to have to convince himself he was no longer dreaming .
Other times , he would wake up excited , remembering something awesome , like the ability to fly or having some hot girl at school say she’d go out with him , only to be disappointed by reality .
Point was , Mike remembered and experienced his dreams like few people do .
And still , the dream he would remember from that night would be the strangest , yet most real , he’d ever experienced .
So far .
Chapter 3 Mike was riding in the passenger’s seat of a topless Jeep .
The African sun was out and oppressive , with little wind or shade nearby .
The temperature was in the triple digits .
He looked around at the people in his vehicle .
Driving was a black man , no older than 25 , who had a vicious scar running down his left cheek , likely an accident from the job .
He wore a green T-shirt that identified him as the leader of the safari and a pair of khaki pants and sandals .
Behind him were two middle-aged white men , both in what appeared to be beige hunting clothes , that appeared as though they would blend perfectly into the dirt they were driving on .
Looking down , Mike realized that he , too , was wearing one of these uniforms .
Then he saw a plethora of rifles sitting in the open trunk of the Jeep .
He wasn’t just on safari ; they were in fact going big-game hunting .
In Africa .
Sweet .
As the Jeep pulled past a few trees in the area , the group spotted a grazing rhinoceros just 70 yards away .
The driver slowed to a stop .
“Ok , here is the first target of the day .
Be careful getting out of the car and setting up , reckless behavior will cause it to charge , ” he said in surprisingly good English .
He pointed to the scar on his face “You don’t want to deal with a charging rhino.” One of the men in the back stepped out ; the two looked identical with their garb on .
He grabbed a scoped rifle , walked about ten feet from the car and dropped to one knee .
If Mike hadn’t known the man was there , he probably wouldn’t have seen him : he was indistinguishable from the nondescript landscape .
Mike took out his binoculars , as did the other two in the vehicle , and focused on the rhino to get a better view of the effects of the shot .
For another 20 seconds , nothing happened , the man doing his best to line up the perfect shot .
BANG Through his binoculars , Mike saw a big chunk of the rhino’s head go flying , revealing brain matter and blood where there had been an eye just a second earlier .
The beautiful beast dropped dead in its tracks .
The hunter gave out a whoop of satisfaction and returned to the car .
“Hot damn !
Did y’all see that sonbitch fall ? ” He exclaimed with a heavy Southern accent .
“Ain’t never done dat in the States.” “You done got him good Jeremy ( it came out Jeremah ) , ” said the other one , also an American Southerner by the sound of it .
As the Jeep drove over to the corpse , he men continued to crow about what a shot it had been and how quickly that sucker had dropped .
Jeremy stepped out briefly to collect the creature’s horn then stepped back in , leaving the body behind .
They continued to look for animals among trees that weren’t sparse but were spaced pretty far apart .
Brush was everywhere and some large rocks got in their way , but they drove right over them thanks to the power of all-wheel drive .
Small animals scurried up into the trees as the mechanical beast encroached on their territory .
Five minutes later , the group came upon a pride of lions resting under a tree as the sun shone overhead .
The sound of the Jeep and the cackling men woke up the male , who looked up groggily , less than pleased at having his nap interrupted .
Again , the guide pulled over to the side .
I’ll see to it that you are disbarred or whatever it is they do to rid people of quacks like you ! ” She looked up at the clock on the wall ; only five minutes had passed since she first came into the office .
She struggled to sit upright but was as helpless as a beached whale .
“And another thing ! ” she added angrily , “I’ll be damned if I pay one cent for this farce of a session !
Doctor indeed ! ” He shook his head and smiled .
“Yes , Ms. Williams , you most certainly will pay… and as for your being damned…” At that moment , the couch that she was lying upon began sinking slowly downward .
“What the hell is going on ! ” she screamed , her fingers clinching tight to the cushion in a vise like grip .
“Exactly , Ms. Williams ! ” laughed the doctor .
“You certainly have hit the nail on the head ! ” The dark shadows of the office walls disappeared and were now aglow with the burning hues of yellow , red , and orange as flames licked and curled their way around the sides of the couch .
A legion of charred and broken hands appeared from the depths and clawed at the elephantine figure helplessly reposed there .
Her face was contorted in a fantastic arrangement of horror and in one last desperate plea she managed to shout out , “But… but… I still have 55 minutes left ! ” before she disappeared into the abyss .
Ten minutes had passed and once again a new patient entered the doctor’s office .
A wiry tattooed figure stepped through the door and looked around .
“Take a seat , Mr. Kupchak , ” came a voice behind a turned office chair .
The man sat down on the couch and immediately raised his hands , the leather for some reason was uncomfortably hot to touch and he could detect a lingering hint of sulfur in the air .
A moment later the office chair spun around and the old man sitting there began to write into an open folder .
What appeared to be a wisp of smoke rose from his head as he looked up with a most diabolical grin and said , “Now Mr. Kupchak , time is running short today… what say we just cut to the chase shall we ?
So… just how many people did you actually murder last Friday ? ” The man’s fingers nervously found their way to his shirt collar , he stretched it out and swallowed hard .
THE T. T. SOCIETY A door at the back of the lecture hall opened ; a man wearing a trench coat and an overly large Fedora hat quietly stepped inside and took a seat by the back wall .
There were eighteen of these well- seasoned souls all sitting in high back leather chairs forming a semicircle and directly in front of them was a thin bald gentleman standing at a podium .
The man banged his gavel twice .
“Order !
Order ! ” he declared , and after a few moments the group quieted .
“It’s very nice to see that everyone could make it today… by the grace of God there’s not an empty chair to mourn over this month ! ” This was followed by a murmur of agreement .
“Now then , who will start the session off ? ” One of the old men stood and walked over to the podium among a scattering of applause .
He adjusted the microphone and cleared his throat .
“I don’t know about you gentleman , but my first business venture was an inauspicious one and came to me when I was just ten years of age .
At the time I was totally enamored with comic books and did whatever I could to earn enough money in order to buy the latest edition of Superman , Dick Tracy or whatever struck my fancy that particular month .
Now , you may recall yourself that in the back pages of those comics were various advertisements that made extraordinary claims , like for instance , X ray Glasses…remember those ? ” A few laughs and shouts came up from the group .
“Remember how exciting it was for us young lads to have the ability to look right through a woman’s dress straight to her undergarments… and all for a mere buck twenty five ! “ They all laughed .
“Of course… as you know , these items never did pan out as advertised , I speak with first-hand knowledge because I purchased just about every product ever displayed in those books at one time or another but I must say… one advertisement did finally deliver on its promise and I was sure at the time that it would make me very , very rich !
“As it was , I placed an order for this particular product and was on pins and needles for the next few weeks as I eagerly awaited the arrival of my package .
When it finally came I ran with it to the backyard , plopped down upon the ground and tore open the box .
There inside , under a wad of newspaper , was a large envelope with the words “PUPPY SEEDS” marked in bold black letters .
My heart jumped !
Two weeks prior I had painstakingly prepared a small plot of soil in our back yard to receive these magical seeds , I carefully followed the instructions and , sure enough , within the next week or so I could see the sprouting of a most unusual type of plant .
As they matured over the following days , each plant grew a thick rigid stalk and numerous pod- like structures poked out in all directions .
Between school and my chores at home , I still managed to find time to lovingly nurse my plants to maturity and , to my great joy , it wasn’t long before they bore their promised fruit .
“That night , I was asleep in my bedroom .
It was very warm so I had the window open and at some point I heard a small squeak of a noise coming from outside my window .
I immediately realized what it was and flew from the house with flashlight in hand .
Sure enough , when I reached the garden , I could see a tiny figure squirming in the dark .
With great joy I scooped a tiny puppy into my hand and heartily welcomed the little fellow into the world , but a second later I heard a slight thump as something hit the ground nearby which was simultaneously accompanied by a tiny yelp .
I pointed my light in the direction of the sound and goodness me , wouldn’t you know , it was another puppy !
I watched in amazement as a number of the pods slowly opened and invariably a little puppy would slide out and hit the ground causing a small yelp to erupt .
I was overjoyed not only by the number being born in such a magical way but also by the variety the plants had to offer .
There were Collies , Dobermans , Golden Retrievers , Saint Bernards , Basset Hounds , and just about every breed imaginable .
I was astonished by the prolific nature of the plants and it became clear that I would never be able to fully contain all of my little darlings .
Our backyard was soon overwhelmed , then the front yard , then the sidewalk , and before I knew it , puppies were swarming over the entirety of our neighborhood in a cacophony of tiny squeaks and whimpers !
“My neighbors were horrified by the never ending parade of puppies that encroached upon their perfectly manicured lawns and walkways and were so incensed that some of them threatened legal action against me if I didn’t put an end to this so called “Puppy Pollution.” I must admit that I was frightened stiff at the prospect of spending my promising youth in a jail cell .
My parents were also on the verge of disowning me if I didn’t find some way to correct the situation… and fast !
I ran back to the box that the seeds had come in and pored over the instructions once again , hoping to glean some answer to my predicament but I discovered nothing useful .
I was contemplating running away from home when just by chance I spotted another envelope taped to the inside of the box , with the words , ‘OPEN IN CASE OF EMERGENCY’ written on it .
I quickly tore open the envelope and breathed a sigh of relief , for I was now holding a smaller envelope with the words , ‘DOG CATCHER SEEDS.’” The old man smiled and gave a salute as the other members roared with laughter .
He took his seat as the bald gentleman stepped back up to the podium with a chuckle .
“Thank you , William , for that most unusual tale… now , who will…” He stopped suddenly as he noticed an unfamiliar man in the back of the room stand and make his way towards the exit .
“Ah… Sir… I don’t believe we have had the pleasure ! ” the bald man shouted .
All the members craned their necks to see who he was addressing .
The man in the trench coat and Fedora hat turned back in embarrassment with large jowls and a face full of sagging skin .
“Oh…I must apologize , ” he said .
“I just caught sight of your banner on the far wall…you gentleman of course belong to the ‘TALL TALE SOCIETY.’ I must have gotten the wrong room .
Somewhere in this building , according to my pamphlet here , is a lecture on Genetic Experimentation and I am to be one of its guest speakers… please forgive my intrusion.” He turned to leave but the man at the podium yelled out , “But Sir ! … we always appreciate and welcome having guest speakers ourselves ! ” “Hear !
Hear ! ” came a number of voices from the group .
“Would you not like to share a tale with us before you leave ? ” At hearing this , the man threw his head back and howled with laughter .
There was an audible gasp from the group and a moment later , a gavel was pounding out order once again .
“Now then…” said the bald man , turning back towards the group .
“Anyone care to top that ? ” TELL A TALE TAVERN Deep in the forest of Greyshire , a dark and forlorn figure could be seen wandering its long forgotten road in search of shelter .
The gloom of night descended quickly and with it a shroud of mist layered the trees and roadway like a gathering of spirits .
Yet up ahead , peeking out from behind a small copse of trees , a pale yellow light seemed to beckon the traveler , a most welcomed sight considering his present circumstance .
As he moved closer , he could see more clearly the outline of a large log cabin and upon arrival a great wooden sign hung prominently from the top of its doorway , it read “TELL A TALE TAVERN & INN.” The words seemed to be freshly painted and covering up a different name underneath but he couldn’t quite discern exactly what it was because of the poor lighting .
An uneasiness crept over him as he stepped to one side and peered through the window .
A fireplace was brightly ablaze on the far end of the room and a few tattered deer heads hung from its darkened walls .
There were also a number of roughly hewn wooden tables and chairs dotting its inside but not much more could be seen from the window .
“Such a dismal décor , ” he thought to himself as he started to make his way inside .
He wrenched the rusty door handle with great effort and the heavy wooden door slowly swung open with a moanful creak .
Aside from the crackling of the fire , the room was deathly quiet and void of any presence .
His eyes scanned the interior .
A row of vintage oil lamps hung from a grey wooden beam that ran down the center of the room and to his left was a large slab of gnarled and unfinished wood sitting upon notched logs .
Behind this he saw shelves filled with sand colored bottles , all corked and of myriad shapes and sizes .
On one side of the counter rested a wooden ladder that rose to a darkened loft and on the other , a door to an unseen room .
Despite the odd surroundings he was certainly thankful to be out of the cold .
He turned to close the door and as he turned again , a figure now stood before him .
This sudden appearance startled him and he fell back against the door with a gasp .
“Oh my !
Beggin’ your pardon stranger , I didn’t mean to frighten you so ! ” Before him stood a plump old fellow whose slack face looked to be fully drained of color .
“I’m the barkeep here , Old Tom they call me , ” he wiped his hand across a stained apron and held it out in common gesture .
The man instinctively took hold but a stingy cold instantly penetrated his flesh and coursed quickly to the bone .
The old man gave him a wink .
“Now you just shake off that chill over there by the fire and old Tom’ll get you some grub right away… they’ll be plenty of time for story tellin ! ” He then turned and disappeared behind the counter door .
Still a bit shaken , the man rubbed his hands and walked over to the fire .
Within a few minutes the old man returned , carrying a large wooden platter filled with small loves of fresh bread , slabs of cheese and two large steins of beer .
He sat the platter down upon the table and gestured for the man to have a seat .
“Now then , stranger , why is such a man as yourself out on a night like this ? ” the old man asked , eyeing him from top to bottom .
“We certainly don’t get many borders these days.” “Well , it just so happens that I got lost somehow , ” the man replied .
Come to think of it , I remember seeing a very odd flash of light out the corner of my eye , then as I say , everything was different .
For the life of me I can’t fathom how it all happened but I found myself walking on a dirt road for what seemed hours looking for my car.” He paused .
“Now that I think of it , I did come across a man on horseback but when I yelled out to him he wouldn’t even look in my direction , which I thought very peculiar.” There was a knowing glint in the eye of the old man but he remained silent , his face only gesturing in a feign mask of sympathy .
I forced myself upright , watching a figure bound toward the wagon with a handful of alfalfa .
I wasn’t alone in the wagon ; the other person was my best friend Hailey and she was kind enough to answer for me .
“The horse knows where it’s going , Ralph.” I loved it when she used that get-over-yourself tone and rolled her eyes—except when she did it to me .
Naturally , a large grin crossed my face .
Ralph , Hailey , and I had been best friends from the time we could walk .
Even though all the children in our town grow up together until the age of twelve—and there were plenty of other kids our age—we had gravitated toward each other early on .
Most of the adults in town treated us like siblings instead of just friends .
Now that we were ten , we were each responsible for gathering food .
Instead of each of us going alone , we decided it would be more fun to go together .
I was responsible for blackberries , which , inconveniently , grew only in a vast forest a day’s travel away from town .
Ralph , of course , gathered alfalfa , which was in abundance in the stretching fields that grew for miles on the horizon .
Hailey was responsible for mushrooms that were found anywhere , but grew large and earthy on the dark , damp ground sheltered by the forest .
We became accustomed to taking one day at the beginning of the moon cycle to travel to the forest , gather berries , and stuff ourselves with mushrooms .
We always fell fast asleep against a wayward pine before making the journey back the following morning .
On this trip the mushroom harvest had been scarce and there were hardly enough blackberries to fill the required quota for the town .
Ralph sprang over the side of the wagon and landed loudly enough that I knew he purposely tried to startle us .
Hailey shrieked as the unexpected weight caused the wagon to sway , but I remained impassive to his attempt to scare us .
“Wow , Edmund .
What are you daydreaming about ? ” his voice sounded playful .
He playfully snapped his fingers in front of my face to get my attention .
They buzzed with electric magic .
My gaze met his .
His ragged auburn hair fell unkempt over his golden eyes .
He looked at me with an odd expression of anticipation .
“What are you thinking about ? ” he asked .
Blackberry pie—but I wasn’t about to tell him that .
“Something on the horizon caught my attention , ” I lied .
Both he and Hailey turned their backs to peer deep toward the west .
“I don’t see anything , ” Ralph said .
“What was it ? ” I could tell he wasn’t going to leave it alone .
It was sad that the prospect of something on the horizon was enough to intrigue him , but I supposed we were all that bored .
I’m sure Ralph hoped it was something shiny .
“I’m not sure , ” I said , shrugging .
“Whatever it was is gone now.” My stomach growled and I heard Hailey snort .
When she turned back to me , her face was lit with a smile that stretched so far over her teeth it must have hurt .
“Hungry , Edmund ? ” “Starved .
We didn’t get enough mushrooms for the trip .
I’ve been staring at the blackberries the entire time Ralph gathered alfalfa , ” I admitted .
“Well it’s my mom’s turn to cook tonight , so you know it’s going to be good.” Visions of the town hall tables lined with plates piled high with vegetables , meat , tarts , and pies filled my head .
Hailey’s mom always worked especially hard on town feasts .
My mouth watered , so I reached out and snagged another blade of grass to chew on .
“How long , do you reckon ? ” Ralph asked .
I knew exactly what he was referring to : how long until we were home .
I stood up and gazed south as we traveled through the long stretches of fields that touched the sky .
I couldn’t see the slender trails of chimney smoke rising yet .
Then I looked at the sun , which had traveled almost halfway between the center point of the sky and the western hills .
“Two hours at best , ” I said , slumping back down into the wagon .
“We’d better stop and let the horse eat before too long.” “I don’t see why she should get to eat before us , ” Ralph complained .
Hailey shot him a disgusted look .
“Because she’s the one that is going to get us home.” Home .
I saw Ralph’s face fall at the word .
“What did you say ? ” he asked , not because of misunderstanding , but because of the way the word resonated through the air , caught the wind , and floated across the grass until it echoed from somewhere behind us .
It was as if the world had echoed the word .
Hailey’s eyes grew large .
In the pale sunlight they glowed hot ochre .
“Home , ” she whispered again .
To our ears , the word hung in the air like the tone from a tuning fork .
They both looked at me .
Ralph was the first to attempt to speak , although the words got caught in his throat and sounded more like a croak .
“Edmund , is something wrong ? ” My connection to the planet was the strongest .
While Ralph’s abilities centered on things of the spirit and Hailey gravitated toward science and physical magic , my abilities were planet-centric and emotional .
I concentrated on the blades of grass that bowed towards us to the rhythm of a new westerly wind .
Home , home , home , was all they pulsed .
“I don’t know , ” I finally admitted , although my head swam with a feeling that told me something was lurking , not wanting to be revealed by the wind .
I couldn’t ask the grass what was wrong , it was just repeating the wind .
Grass didn’t have deep enough roots to make a strong connection to Orenda .
“I need to find something with deeper roots.” There was a line of trees just a few hills away in the direction from which the wind had come .
“Feed the horse , ” I said .
“I’ll be back.” Ralph didn’t say anything and hesitated only slightly before grabbing a handful of alfalfa and tossing himself over the side of the cart .
Hailey sat motionless , absently stroking her arms as if the temperature had dropped .
I considered saying something to comfort her but instead jumped to the ground and headed for the trees .
It didn’t take long to get there at full sprint although my chest heaved with breathlessness .
The muscles in my thighs ached when I finally stood among the branches .
The run helped work out my tension , but the emotions didn’t dissipate until I was standing grounded in the small grove .
The planet had an odd effect on my emotions—they felt heightened and overwhelming when the earth needed something from me , but when I needed to keep a cool head , I could drain them through my feet into the soil beneath me where they would be absorbed by the world around me .
When my emotions were in control , logic would assert itself and my mind could solve larger problems , problems that even the average ten-year-old mage wouldn’t be able to solve .
I thanked the earth for my ability , and searched , not for anything I could see , but for something I could feel .
I made my way through the thick undergrowth until I found a tree that called to me .
Its bark was gnarled and split with age but its dark green leaves boasted of health and fertility .
It wasn’t the massive expression of the powerful and twisted limbs that struck me , it was the unconditional kindness that seemed to sprout up from deep within the trunk and through the tips of the smallest twig .
The tree was inviting .
Had I had a moment to spare , I would have liked nothing more than to curl underneath its shade and rest my head against its roots .
Yes .
This was the oldest tree here , the mother of the rest , and she was aware of my presence .
I reached out and gently stroked the rough bark .
“Hello , Mother Tree , ” I whispered .
It wasn’t the words , but the feeling I needed her to hear .
A shudder went through me as the tree spoke back .
Hello , young one .
Your heart is troubled and I sense you have come to make a request , the wind hissed between her branches .
“I am from the town of Orenda.” Emotion overwhelmed me as I spoke , my connection to the tree and the earth now flooding back into me .
I had to fight back the tears that tried to spill from my eyes .
This tree had a powerful , kind , and overwhelming spirit .
“I feel there is something this land wishes me to know about my hometown .
Is there a line of roots that might happen to stretch all the way there ? ” My roots are deep .
“Might I use them , please , Mother Tree , to see ?
In return I shall grant you any favor you wish.” A favor indeed .
Pluck an acorn from within my branches and take it with you on your journey home .
Plant it in Orenda so that I may spread my seed across this land .
If this you so promise , I will allow you to see .
He whispered and then he started running toward the soldiers .
`` Stop ! ''
they shouted , but Mr. Green did n't listen .
He limped in an awkward sprint toward them , his ankle or foot broken some time long before .
The soldiers were unused to an Infected that could speak and weep .
They hesitated to fire , and Mr. Green reached the young man Nella had pushed past .
Isaac threw himself on the outstretched bayonet .
The soldier had tears streaming down his face as he pulled the trigger .
Nella was dumbstruck .
She looked at Sevita who was still filming as the soldier dropped his gun and fled up the hill .
Nella heard movement behind her .
She turned and saw the mass of people slowly sitting up , stretching limbs and shaking their heads as if they could clear away the memory of the past two years .
She looked back at Sevita who was still shaking and saw the pretty Indian girl turn the camera on herself .
She tried to concentrate on the Cured woman beside her who was trying to stand and heard Sevita begin her broadcast in a dreadfully calm voice .
`` Good afternoon Ladies and Gentlemen .
This is Sevita Das reporting live from the Cure facility .
It has finally happened , the Cure has worked .
And the Infected remember .
They remember everything .
The madness has cleared .
As you have just seen , this will be a massive burden of guilt for the Cured to bear , and many , no doubt , will not survive .
Remaining family members and friends are urged to make contact with the doctors here , who will be able to help with the intense therapy that will be necessary to repair relationships and rebuild not only the Cured , but everyone affected by this terrible disease .
. ''
The Prison Six Years Later .
`` You 're Ms .
Rider ? ''
The man squinted at her through thick sleet as he held the heavy glass door open for her .
Nella tried not to slip as she trotted inside .
She flicked cool gray slush from her leather briefcase with one hand .
She suppressed a shiver , desperate to appear older and harder than she felt .
The man next to her was almost unnaturally tall and she had to look almost straight up to see his face .
`` You must be Mr .
Courtlen . ''
She smiled pleasantly , then immediately felt foolish .
Nella coughed lightly to cover her embarrassment and said , `` And it 's Dr. Rider please . ''
Mr. Courtlen smiled , crinkling a thick raised scar on his cheek .
`` Of course , my apologies Dr. Rider .
It 's nice to meet you . ''
Nella was surprised .
`` Really ? ''
she asked before she could stop herself .
Mr. Courtlen 's smile was warmer , more genuine this time .
`` Really , '' he said , `` We know you 're here at the judge 's request , but whichever way this trial turns out , it 's important that history can show all the participants were completely sane .
If the judge had n't ordered these evaluations , I would have requested them . ''
He extended a hand toward her .
Nella shook it , but felt more rough scar tissue on his palm .
She fought a sympathetic wince .
`` So you are n't intending to go with an insanity defense ? ''
she asked .
`` Well , '' he laughed , `` that 's not really for me to decide is it ?
But I do n't think we 'll need to . ''
Mr.Courtlen held a hand out toward the long blue corridor .
`` This way please .
Dr. Pazzo is expecting us . ''
She quickly fell a few paces behind him , no match for his lengthy stride .
Nella marveled again at his height .
Imagine how fast he must have been , she thought , I doubt anyone could have outrun him .
And then those long skinny arms would wrap around you and yank you in toward snapping teeth .
She shuddered and tried to think of something else .
They had reached the metal detector and Mr. Courtlen was removing his watch and car keys .
`` Where 's Stan ? ''
he asked a nervous looking soldier .
`` Uh .
He went to get coffee , '' the kid managed to squeak , `` He 'll be back in a minute . ''
Mr. Courtlen nodded .
At least I 'm not the only one scared to death of this place , thought Nella as she watched the young guard bouncing his knee .
He gripped his weapon so hard that his knuckles glinted like bone .
Dr. Rider flashed him a kind smile when he glanced at her and she could see his grip relax as he responded .
Mr. Courtlen waved at a middle aged officer coming toward them .
`` Hey Stan , '' he said , `` Is it any good today ? ''
`` Hi Frank .
I made it myself , still have a can or two of the good stuff kicking around .
I 'll be glad when someone can figure out how to grow coffee beans in the populated zone again though .
There 's still half a pot in the break room , help yourself . ''
Stan passed through the detector and set two full mugs on the table .
`` Who is our visitor ? ''
Mr. Courtlen said , `` This is Dr. Rider .
She is the court appointed psychiatrist for both Dr. Pazzo and Miss Connelly .
She 'll be a regular here for the duration . ''
She saw Officer Kembrey raise an eyebrow at Mr. Courtlen .
He obviously thought she was n't going to last .
She brushed it off .
Nella stuck her hand out and Stan shook it heartily .
`` Pleased to meet you .
I 'm Stan Kembrey but everyone just calls me Stan .
Terry and I will be here every day shift .
If you come at night you 'll see Wanda Treim .
Dr. Pazzo and Miss Connelly are the only detainees at this facility , so the rules are a little more relaxed .
For now , at least , until and unless Miss Connelly becomes violent , you can bring pens or pencils into the cell to make notes with .
Of course , if it were me in that cell , I think I 'd rely on my memory instead .
Dr. Pazzo seems to be in a calm state of mind .
However , since the Cure does n't seem to have worked as well on some of the earlier cases , there are big green buttons in the hallway in case either of them 'reverts . '
Press one and all the guards will come running .
If you have any questions about how things are supposed to work you can usually find the Warden in his office .
If you have questions about how things actually work , well , Terry and I are here to serve . ''
`` At what cost ? ''
he responded .
`` I am already immortal in the Divine World myself , '' the man said , `` or I 'd take it on .
I 've always been a benefactor of mankind and since you 're appreciative of the gods , I 've negotiated this deal for you . ''
`` But at what cost ? ''
Alucius again asked .
He 'd already noticed a certain contrariness having come to his nature since drinking the crimson liquid from the jar .
At which point , the immortal man seemed confused .
He shrugged his shoulders , as if to say , How should I know ?
He finally found a few words .
`` You 'd turn down immortality ?
A little more blood and the deed is done . ''
Alucius knew the man was right .
He also realized that the blood he 'd just drunk from the jar was from the Centaur and that drawing the blood was supposed to have killed him , and that when Alucius drank the blood from the jar , it should have made him immortal , but did n't .
What the heck , he thought .
I 've already gorged myself .
What 's a little more ?
Alucius had envisioned the man opening a Centaur vein and refilling the jar , but it seemed the process had evolved .
The Centaur bent down and motioned to his neck .
Alucius turned from the Centaur to the man .
`` What 's he want ? ''
`` Bite him , '' said the man .
Alucius had his reservations about biting a pissed off Centaur .
`` On the neck ? ''
he asked .
The man nodded .
`` Drink the blood . ''
The Centaur stamped his hooves and again lowered his head and shoulders , and Alucius came up to him and inspected the location where he was expected to place his mouth .
He could n't quite bring himself to do it .
`` Bite him ! ''
ordered the man again .
Alucius still would n't do it and started to back away , but the Centaur was in enough pain to want to get the show on the road , so he grabbed Alucius about the shoulders with his unusually large and powerful arms .
`` I 'll show him , '' said the Centaur with a gravely voice that seemed to come from some ancient echo chamber within his horse body .
And then the Centaur did .
He bit Alucius on the neck , and it hurt so bad that he screamed and emitted an unholy epithet about the beast .
But he could n't shake himself loose , and he became afraid that he 'd be drained of all his blood and encounter hated death instead , so he used the only weapon available : his own teeth .
He lunged forward , bit into the neck of the Centaur and sucked ferociously , tearing at the wound and growling as he slurped , and the Centaur 's blood flowed freely and copiously , and Alucius strangled , recovered and continued to guzzle , thinking that surely the Centaur would weaken soon .
And soon he did .
He stopped sucking on Alucius and fell from his hooves to his knees and then rolled over on the ground , all the while holding Alucius to his neck with all the strength he had remaining .
`` That 's it !
That 's it !
You 've gotten the hang of it , '' said the immortal man .
As the Centaur 's life faded , so Alucius gained new vitality .
No longer did he struggle at the open wound but sucked so hard that the Centaur 's body began to wither , the hide collapsing upon the bones , its frame shrinking .
Then the flow of blood stopped , the Centaur 's remaining strength waned , his arms falling from around Alucius , and thus he was released .
Alucius rose from his victim in a daze .
His entire body seemed supercharged .
He leaned his head back , growled into the heavens , and a bright flash of white light emanated from his eyes that momentarily put out the brightest of stars .
He then turned to the man who had given him this immortality .
`` What 's your name ? ''
he asked .
`` I 'm Before , one of two gods of Thought , '' he said .
`` Enjoy this immortality , and remember me , the god who gave it to you , in your prayers and sacrifices . ''
As it turned out , Before and After , the two gods of Thought that Alucius worshiped , had had a falling out .
The two brothers argued , and it was over this Centaur-type immortality .
After Thought did n't think it wise to disrupt the methods adopted ever since mankind was created .
But impulsive Before Thought did n't much give a rat 's ass and told After Thought as much , whereupon After Thought washed his hands of the whole affair .
That brings us to these two gods , as we in modern times have come to know them .
In the ancient Greek , After Thought is Epimetheus ; and Before Thought , or simply Fore Thought , is Prometheus .
The god who had given mankind fire and caused so much consternation in the Divine World had just usurped the Powers-That-Be again and created his own form of immortality for mankind right here on Earth .
The row over Prometheus giving mankind fire never approached the likes of the turmoil this new immortality thing generated .
The divine dust has still not settled and is n't likely to , ever .
Not long after becoming immortal , Alucius came to notice a burning pain throughout his body and a craving for blood that was beyond all telling .
Since no more Centaurs existed in the world , he tried other animals but found them deficient in both taste and efficacy .
The pain became unbearable , and he came to equate it with that of the Centaur , a realization that caused him to be less than pleased with Prometheus .
Alucius termed it the `` Curse of Cheiron . ''
Then one day , one of his clansmen showed undue affection for one of Alucius ' wives , and he pounced on the man .
He found that his teeth had now become his primary weapon , and he bit him , sucked him within a hair of his life before letting go .
But while watching the man die , one of his most fearsome warriors , he experienced regret , and in a frantic attempt to revive him , placed the man 's mouth on his own neck and made him suck .
To his chagrin and consternation , the man also showed renewed strength and hostility shortly thereafter and had acquired his own taste for blood .
Whereupon , Alucius turned all his wives , and thus began the race of immortal vampires .
Among the many things that Prometheus did n't tell Alucius was that another god had also been in agreement with Epimetheus and against Prometheus giving immortality to human beings .
This was the sun god , Helios .
Helios tried to prevent Prometheus from giving away Cheiron 's immortality , but Prometheus did it under the cover of darkness , while Helios was away on the other side of the world and unaware of what was taking place .
When Helios learned what had happened in his absence , he commanded that this new form of immortality be unable to tolerate his rays .
They would of necessity become creatures of the night .
Thus , when Alucius discovered that his new lifestyle included an aversion to sunlight , he went underground during the day and became nocturnal for his above-world activities .
He came to appreciate the deep recesses of the underworld , and particularly partook of the beauty of stalactites and stalagmites .
Some of his flocks congregate in caverns to this day .
The `` k '' instead of a `` c '' was a bit problematic , but close enough .
Since then he has proudly proclaimed his name to be Alu Kard .
Of course Alu 's detractors have taken the word Centaur , spelled it backwards to get Ruat Nec , which sounds a little like `` rat neck '' which describes some of the people off of whom Alu has fed through the millennia .
You 'll hear the disparaging epithet applied even among Alu 's own flock of bloodsuckers when times get tough .
CHAPTER 2 In the beginning ... A Testimonial I , Catalin of the City of God and Counselor of many Caretakers of Earth 's Spiritual Realm , was walking amongst the trees of the Garden when God evicted Adam and Eve for eating fruit from the Tree of Knowledge .
He realized that they could no longer be trusted and had taken positive measures to keep them from eating fruit from the Tree of Life , which would have made them immortal .
God sought to protect mankind from becoming eternal on Earth .
By dying , the soul is released and allowed to go to Heaven .
Many saw the eviction as a punishment , and certainly that was Adam and Eve 's opinion , but it was actually a blessing because , by dying , mankind gained eternal life in the Divine World where they could live among divine beings .
Divine beings such as myself are among the ancient Watchers , who provide guidance to spirits of the natural world .
We observe but do not generally interfere in the affairs of God 's Earth .
We do , however , take an interest in all beings that occupy our realm .
Seth , Adam and Eve 's third son , had the Archangel Michael fetch a branch of the Tree of Life from the Garden of Eden and plant it on his father 's grave .
It grew into a gigantic tree .
Much later , Solomon cut down the tree for use in his temple , but found the wood unsuitable .
He discarded it .
The Romans then used that wood for Christ 's cross when they crucified him .
As a divine being , I was amongst those present at the Crucifixion .
Although I was there only to observe , I quickly became interested in another of the witnesses , one Alucius of Kardacia , a mortal , or at least I initially thought he was mortal .
Although no longer in existence , Kardacia was then a small village in the Carpathian Mountains of Romania .
Furthermore , rescuing a kidnapped child might help him redress the mistake that got him his nickname .
Wells braced himself for impact , holding the clamps out in front him as instructed , and grimacing as if it would prevent the coming collision .
To his amazement , as he got close to the ship , the electromagnetic fields of the clamps slowed his flight , gently but firmly securing him to the ship’s hull .
Having survived what he thought was the worst of it he got back enough breath to speak .
“Angelica , what the hell happened to the countdown ? ” “Sorry chick !
Just needed you to relax–the jolt of the launch causes all kinds of nasty injuries if you don’t.” “Next time just give me some pills and don’t call me chick !
“ “Well , the good news is you’re only five metres away from the airlock .
You’re going to lose contact with us until you register yourself as part of their crew .
If you have any last minute questions , now is the time.” Wells had none .
He crawled along the side to the opening .
After a number of accidents in which expensive cargo had been trapped onboard failed ships , it had been the law that all airlocks must allow constant access to the ship for emergency purposes .
All Wells had to do was press a couple of buttons and he was in .
The inside of the ship was as unsurprising as any large and dusty warehouse .
Although , the contrast between the whipping debris of the exterior and the almost mundane ugliness of the interior gave Wells cause to pause for just a moment .
Even after he switched his visor to its interior lens , the room looked unnaturally dark and gloomy .
Row after row of brown cardboard boxes , packed tightly though not always neatly into metal framed shelving units , reached upwards to a height of fifteen metres .
The hard , cold , and easily cleanable floor had developed a layer of dust that at first glance could have easily been mistaken for mud .
Scaling one of the nearby blocks of shelves , Wells surveyed the hull of the ship , looking for an entrance to the passenger deck and a system access terminal .
The only unique structure was a spiral staircase at the far end of the room , about half a kilometre away .
It wasn’t an easy trek .
The layout of the shelving seemed to have been planned with no regard to access whatsoever .
Mazes of rows seemed to lead the way then suddenly met with a dead-end .
Mountaineering the precariously over-packed shelving was a dangerous and noisy venture .
Large boxes of plastic utensils and nylon clothing spilt out in the wake of every clamber .
As Wells made it to the staircase , he noticed with dismay a sign reading : Floor 1 of 5 .
Sure enough , Floor 2 of 5 had another staircase placed , almost belligerently , at the opposite side of the room and Wells began his second scramble .
The thought occurred to him that he was soon going to have to make this journey a second time but with a twelve-year-old boy in tow , doubtlessly pursued by a series of armed guards .
The guards , he would enjoy .
As luck would have it , the third floor contained both the exit to the passenger deck and a ship’s computer .
Both were totally unguarded .
When he reached the terminal , he quickly loaded a Trojan that installed him on the Walton system as a high-level employee and shut down their satlink to the outside worlds .
Walton’s did everything on the cheap and security was no exception ; they were still using a near-medieval swipe card system .
What that meant in practical terms was that only a moment after the worm was loaded Wells had access to the ship’s schematics , passenger / cargo lists , communication system , and docking permissions .
He studied the data in front of him and did some mathematics ; it would take forty-five minutes to reach the kid and about an hour to fight his way out of there .
Luckily , the schematics revealed another docking bay , up towards the ship’s cockpit .
If his own ship docked at the far end , he could reach them from the kid’s room in twenty minutes .
He could run the schematics in the peripheral window of his helmet to avoid getting lost .
Even allowing extra time for any screw-pusher could do the job in an hour and ten minutes .
He raised an external line through the company communicator and contacted Angelica .
“Where’ve you been ? ” she teased .
“The hull is not a viable exit point .
I’ve arranged for you to dock at the port near the cockpit , in seventy minutes.” “OK , chicky , I’ll see what I can do.” “Thanks.” Wells sprinted through the corridors of the hull towards the deck that held the child .
The passenger decks were almost as bleak as the hull ; bare beige walls carpeted with light brown tiles that had more in common with scouring pads than with rugs .
It was as well that he was navigating with the schematics , because there was absolutely nothing to distinguish between one corridor and another .
After his third corner and his second set of oak-effect plastic folding doors Wells hit the first communal area .
The tranquillity of the mandatory multi-faith prayer and meditation room was a tenuous one at the best of times .
It was a large square room , and apart from its size and shape , it was identical to the corridor he had just left .
It was largely bare except for a few burgundy kneeling pads and a row of pews .
Against the far wall there was a non-denominational altar .
The altar was little more than a table with a tiny plinth on it .
An arrow pointed to the plinth under which there read the instructions , ” Insert Your Deity Here.” A group of six employees sat in their blue shirted uniforms , legs crossed in a circle at the centre of the room , playing cards .
Wells burst through the door adorned in his slick climate suit , hands up ready to fight .
The clamour of movement that Wells was expecting never came .
Two of the employees shot Wells quick glances that suggested they would appreciate it if he moved quickly on but the rest of them did their best to ignore him completely .
As Wells stormed through the ship , he passed countless crewmembers , all of whom were completely apathetic to this silver maniac bouncing down their corridors .
Wells had only ever been on two types of space ships ; the type from his NASA days that would ID him upwards of three times in an hour and salvage ships like Detritus with small crews of twenty .
He had not expected to pass so easily through the Walton ship , seen by the drone eyes of the workforce but not really noticed .
Occasionally Wells passed a sign intended to inspire the workers to greater contentment with their positions : a yellow on black poster read , ” Accident Free for 1 Week.” Another had a picture of a woman standing at the top of a mountain in a bikini with , ” Perseverance” written across the bottom of it in bold print .
In addition to these motivational signs , the Walton logo peeped around almost every corner .
With ease and minor bemusement , Wells finally reached the last public section of the ship that stood between him and Thomas Manfred .
A large sign stood over an uninviting doorway that read simply , ” Rest Area ( no outside food ) .” Wells passed through the door , astonished by the colossal size of the room .
At least four hundred four-seated tables , the ones with the fixed chairs , stood side by side .
Almost every chair occupied with muttering , thousand-yard staring employees .
As he stepped through the door , Wells immediately hit a small enclosure of low steel bars that led to a waist height turnstile .
On the other side of the enclosure sat a rotund middle-aged man wearing a blue blazer jacket that Wells recognised as a symbol of low-grade authority in the Walton Corporation .
It was the kind of jacket worn by shop greeters .
“Can I see your rest pass please ? ” Wells gave him his pass card .
“This is a door pass , you need a rest pass !
“ “What ? ” “No rest without a rest pass !
“ Wells vaulted the turnstile , jogging dismissively onwards .
A moment later , a loud and intrusive siren began to whine and the lights of the building to flash in sickly red and blue .
Then , Wells had his first encounter with the guards .
One thing that Wells enjoyed about working off world was that the space agency had banned all ballistic weapons on spacecrafts quite early on into the industrial fleet movement .
A few too many hulls had been breached as a consequence of the numerous suicides that took place on those vessels .
Handguns were universally capable of piercing the toughest armour .
The four guards that charged Wells with batons were doing their job properly for the first time .
Until Wells showed up , they had stood idle for long hours watching the workers and occasionally harassing them about petty theft and health and safety infractions .
They had no idea what they were getting into .
Wells brushed aside the first baton and drove his head hard into the man’s face .
Wells’ visor , intended to reflect space debris , broke through cartilage and into bone with a sickening crunch .
The second guard lucked out and caught a kick to the stomach that dropped him instantly .
Liberating the baton from the third guard with a messy elbow separation , Wells used it to break out the teeth of the final guard .
There were no further immediate attacks .
Wells ran across the rest area using the tables like steps : pre-packaged salads and grey burgers burst around his footfalls like shrapnel .
He didn’t want to imagine what use the people on that ship would have for a stolen child .
However , most of the images that came to him were more horrible than the things he thought were acceptable .
Manfred would be of no value to the crew if these bastards had killed him .
Wells charged , onwards and upwards until the dot inside his visor that represented him came close to the one that represented the boy .
The deck offered its crew bog-standard single-berth cabins .
There was the standard arrangement of necessities , a single bed , a small table , and an AV port .
Wells checked each of the room numbers as he passed them by , until eventually he reached the one he had pulled off the ship’s computer–room 778965c .
He peered through the PVC window .
On the other side of the window was a sleeping young man of about eighteen years of age .
He was tall , frail and defeated looking .
He didn’t look the sort to be involved in child molestation but Wells didn’t set much stock in appearances .
He burst through the door and grabbed the young man by his throat , delicately placing his fingers to repress both the jugular and windpipe .
It was an unpleasant way to awaken and the expression of terror and confusion on the young man’s face reflected that unpleasantness .
“Where’s Thomas Manfred ? ” Wells barked .
The young man attempted to answer but could only manage a series of incomprehensible gurgles .
“You better pray that I find him in one piece.” Wells tightened his grip .
At 9.35 Tegan gave up worrying about her interview .
She had tried with the help of Matty to hold her phone through the gap at the bottom of the door but even when she had got it through there was still no signal .
Damien had scoffed cynically when she tried , saying , “There’ll be no signal !
We might as well be trapped in a rock of iron ore under a mountain of slate.” Normally , his smug hostility would have made Tegan furious but the man was not looking well at all and , worst still , his illness was polluting the air .
As Matty pulled to retrieve his foot from the doorway , she considered how it would affect the ventilation and asked if he could leave his shoe in the gap .
Matty , after introducing himself at length , had briefly tried to get everyone dancing but they weren’t going for it .
Feeling hard done by the fact that he had one cold foot and no one would even dance with him he had given up .
Pulling the hood of his sweatshirt over his head and tightening the strings until it obscured his face Matty down to sulk .
He gently rocked his head in time to the tinny dance music that his phone was churning out again .
Tegan was not about let her best interview suit make contact with that floor .
She pulled a book of Sudoku puzzles from the back of her briefcase and did her best to immerse herself in them .
The first glimmer of hope arrived at a little before ten o’clock : They could hear movement outside and the sound of two male voices .
A door slammed closed and then burst noisily open again .
One of the voices screamed , “Get off him.” The other voice just simply screamed .
There was the sound of a brief struggle and the squeak of shoes as one person sprinted away .
Matty was knelt down on the floor his head craned over to try to see what was happening .
“I can’t see anything , ” said Matty .
“Must just be nutters ! ” Because of the noise of Matty’s music this was the first time that it had really occurred to Tegan just how quiet it was outside .
Now there was an ominous repetitive sound that sounded like a person fidgeting .
Screw it , she thought .
I’ve been here long enough .
She shouted through the gap : “Can anybody help us ? ” “Stupid woman , ” barked Damien .
“That could be anyone.” “Better than no-one , ” she snapped back at him .
Suddenly there was the sound of slow approaching footsteps .
Whoever it was must have been tall because they could see fingertips over the top of Matty’s shoe .
The fingertips closed and yanked the soft trainer out of its holding place .
The elevator doors instantly closed behind it .
Matty stood up to start yelling but the sight of Damien stopped him dead .
The man was clutching his chest .
The American woman had run over to grab him and was trying to help him sit down .
Damien flailed his arm in spasm and the back of his hand caught Tegan directly on the nose .
Tegan had been the only thing supporting him .
He simply slid down the wall and stopped moving .
Matty stood , wondering what exactly he could do .
“Loosen his shirt and tie .
We’ll have to put him in the recovery position.” Tegan had pulled some tissues out of her bag and was clutching them to her nose .
“I don’t wan na move him ; he looks like he’s shat himself .
Smells like it too.” Tegan freed one hand from her face and used it to help herself up .
She crouched down next to the man and checked his pulse .
“You won’t have to , ” she said .
“He’s dead.” The slow dawn of panic crept across Matty’s face he raised both hands to his head and clutched at the front of his hood , pulling it forward to cover his eyes .
“I can’t believe this , ” he muttered .
“Stay calm.” “I can’t believe this ! ” Matty was shouting now .
He started to kick the wall and then to bang his head against it , repeating the same words : ”I can’t believe this.” Tegan left him to burn off his energy and when he seemed to be slowing down she sternly asked him , “Calm ? ” Matty nodded his head like a child lost in a supermarket .
“Good , ” said Tegan , “‘cause that’s not fucking helping ! ” “Oh , so-rry ! ” Matty sat back down and began to rock his head again , this time without the accompanying music .
It was an hour and twenty-seven minutes before Matty finally broke his silence .
“Did he just fart ? ” “No , you did.” “That’s not me.” “I think people release gasses after they’re dead.” “Check his pulse again.” Tegan went over to Damien and lifted his arm ; he was unnaturally cold to the touch .
She held her fingers against the vein of his left wrist but could feel nothing .
Certain that he was dead , she slowly began to lower his arm .
As his arm neared the floor , Tegan felt a faint but clear pulse and snatched it back up .
His heart was beating , but at a rate of about once every five seconds .
This was one of those time when having a PhD in History was particularly unhelpful .
“I think he’s just about alive.” “OK , ” nodded Matty .
“That’s alright then.” His eyes stared up at Tegan , gibbous and terrified .
“I’m going to sleep now , OK ? ” Tegan just shrugged .
“Fine.” Matty had actually lain down on the filthy floor but he didn’t seem to find any peace .
His legs and body sporadically twitched in spasm and even though his hood was obscuring his face it was obvious that he was crying .
Tegan was not faring much better .
Her legs were burning but she was still loath to sit down on the grime-carpeted floor .
She figured that this probably wasn’t going to be the day when her life turned around after all .
Damien had begun to make inarticulate grunts and snorts .
After staring at the two prostrate men for a few minutes Tegan frantically began to press the help button again .
In her periphery she could see Matty stand up ; he walked to the door and forced it open a few inches holding it open with his one shod foot .
He turned to Tegan .
“Can you look the other way ? ” “Yeah , ” she said .
“Try not to make a mess.” Matty seemed to calm down and he went back to listening to mp3s on his phone ; reluctantly , and because she needed the toilet too , Tegan sat down .
She tried to occupy herself by reviewing the articles that she had brought for her interview portfolio .
The syntax of the articles was almost enough to drown out the twin irritations of Damien’s intermittent moaning and the endless rattle of bass and treble that was escaping from Matty’s headphones .
For a little over half an hour the situation was just about bearable to Tegan .
Then , without warning , Matty’s music stopped .
Matty pulled out his phone and began banging it against the back of his hand as if that was somehow magically going to stimulate its battery into another hour of play .
When that failed him , he simply threw it at the wall .
Then he stood up , picked the phone back up and began to smash it against the wall .
“Will you calm down ? ” barked Tegan as she stood up to try to pacify him .
Tegan took a step backwards as she realised that Damien had also stood up and was staring directly at Matty .
Matty turned to meet his glare and as he did so , Damien lurched forward and bit into his collarbone .
Matty frantically took small and ineffectual swings at the man in an effort to shake him off , but Damien had firm hold of Matty , set on clenching his teeth until they had ripped out a good chunk of his flesh .
The pain and shock left Matty defenceless .
Tegan tried hitting Damien with her bag but the man seemed oblivious to the blows .
Remembering a self-defence lesson she had taken in college she slipped around the back of Damien and threaded her forearm over his throat , using her other arm to double the pressure of the hold .
As Tegan struggled to cut off his flow of oxygen Matty found the instinct to fight back and plunged both of his thumbs into Damien’s eye sockets .
Damien fell backwards with Tegan underneath him , still desperately squeezing his throat .
Matty fell backwards too , clutching the wound that Damien had inflicted on him .
After what seemed like an hour , Damien succumbed to Tegan’s chokehold and lost consciousness .
Tegan patched Matty up as best as she could by tearing her suit jacket into bandages .
Matty had lost quite a bit of blood and was shivering ; Tegan thought it was probably quite important that he keep warm .
She was cold herself , she had lost control of her bladder in the struggle and the moisture was catching the draft .
Blood covered her hands and body and she dreaded to think what else .
There was no way of cleaning them properly but she saved a rag from her formerly best jacket to wipe most of it off her hands .
The adrenaline rush that had provoked her to defend Matty had soured and turned against her , making her jittery and bellicose when there was nothing to defend or attack .
She paced the elevator , watching Damien , ready to strike him at the first sign of movement , but he didn’t even stir .
Matty was sleeping like a hibernating bear , and the quiet was all the more noticeable for the recent spurt of mayhem .
It was a hopeless and neglected quiet that seemed to say , this is it for you – nobody is ever coming to help you .
Tegan couldn’t sit down again ; not for fear of the dirt , how ridiculous that seemed now , but for fear of Damien waking up again and for fear of the cold that might set in if she stopped moving .
It had been about five hours since the doors closed on her and they had been far , far worse than she could have possibly anticipated them to be .
She began to fantasise that somehow Paul had returned and would come looking for her .
The hollow fantasy was enough to keep her going for a little while longer .
Tegan she wondered just how long she could simply keep pacing without giving in to the situation .
The adrenaline in her system began slowly to wear off with a level of exhaustion she had never previously experienced settling down in its place .
At first she leant against the wall , then she slowly gave way to sitting and finally to closing her eyes .
The young painter sagged like a broken doll and blood poured from his ruined face .
Charlotte stumbled down the last few steps as Tobias lunged for his friend .
Tobias’ furious charge was cut short as one of the intruders lashed out with a cruel cudgel .
The club smashed into Tobias’ face and he fell sprawling to the floor .
Charlotte reached out for her Tobias , but a rough hand gripped her shoulder and shoved her back into the stairs , dashing her head against the banister as she fell .
As her vision faded she glimpsed a tall , bearded , shaven headed man stride past into the front room drawing a knife .
The man kicked Tobias as the poet tried to clamber to his feet and then planted his booted foot on his chest .
In the moonlight it appeared as if the tattoos upon the man’s face writhed and twisted as he pushed Tobias’ jaw back , exposing his neck .
With the blade clutched in his fist , he slashed the poet’s throat .
~o0o~ Thornville shrugged on his coat then tossed a handful of coins onto the bed where Mary lay .
“You are , as always , the light in my darkness , ” he murmured .
The girl lay still as Thornville ogled her naked form ; then he closed the curtains and made his way down the stairs .
The tavern was quiet now .
The night’s revelry being over , most of the other patrons had returned to wherever they called home .
One or two inebriates lay upon the floor , amongst empty bottles and other detritus .
Manfred Thornville picked his way through these lost souls and out into the predawn light .
He paused outside the tavern doors , took a deep breath , stretched , then walked to the spot he had told Mortimer to wait with the carriage .
He rapped upon the door , waking his driver .
Mortimer lurched into a sitting position “ ... Yes m’lord ? ” “Home , Mortimer , ” said Thornville , climbing into the carriage .
“Very good , m’lord , ” said Mortimer as he turned the carriage and began the journey home .
“What do you mean , gone ? ” Thornville raged as Rachel flinched away from him .
What was Charlotte thinking of ?
She was due to meet her future husband today , if she ruined his plans there would be hell to pay !
“It’s like I said , sir .
Miss Thornville has gone to visit Mr. Day .
She left with that Mr. Baskin fellow last night.” Thornville turned away from the cowering maid .
“Mortimer , have my horse saddled immediately and fetch my pistols ! ” He stormed off towards the stables .
“If that bloody poet has had a hand in this I’ll kill him myself ! ” Thornville muttered .
“And I think a word or two with Captain Cole is also in order.” As Thornville rounded the corner to the stable block , Mortimer was leading Thornville’s charger out to meet him .
“I imagine this will not take long , ” said Thornville as he mounted the stallion .
“If Hobart arrives before I return , keep him entertained .
He is not to leave under any circumstance.” ”Very good , m’lord , ” Mortimer replied , handing him a brace of pistols .
Thornville checked the pistols then kicked the stallion into a gallop .
He made straight for Road Town , specifically the address of one Tobias Day .
Varney the Vampire Part 3 CHAPTER VII .
THE VISIT TO THE VAULT OF THE BANNERWORTHS , AND ITS UNPLEASANT RESULT.—THE MYSTERY .
Henry and his brother roused Flora , and after agreeing together that it would be highly imprudent to say anything to her of the proceedings of the night , they commenced a conversation with her in encouraging and kindly accents .
“Well , Flora , ” said Henry , “you see you have been quite undisturbed to-night.” “I have slept long , dear Henry.” “You have , and pleasantly too , I hope.” “I have not had any dreams , and I feel much refreshed , now , and quite well again.” “Thank Heaven ! ” said George .
“If you will tell dear mother that I am awake , I will get up with her assistance.” The brothers left the room , and they spoke to each other of it as a favourable sign , that Flora did not object to being left alone now , as she had done on the preceding morning .
“She is fast recovering , now , George , ” said Henry .
“If we could now but persuade ourselves that all this alarm would pass away , and that we should hear no more of it , we might return to our old and comparatively happy condition.” “Let us believe , Henry , that we shall.” “And yet , George , I shall not be satisfied in my mind , until I have paid a visit.” “A visit ?
Where ? ” “To the family vault.” “Indeed , Henry !
I thought you had abandoned that idea.” “I had .
Before I finally decide , I will again consult with Mr. Marchdale .
His opinion will weigh much with me.” “And in good time , here he comes across the garden , ” said George , as he looked from the window of the room in which they sat .
It was Mr. Marchdale , and the brothers warmly welcomed him as he entered the apartment .
“You have been early afoot , ” said Henry .
“I have , ” he said .
“The fact is , that although at your solicitation I went to bed , I could not sleep , and I went out once more to search about the spot where we had seen the—the I don’t know what to call it , for I have a great dislike to naming it a vampyre.” “There is not much in a name , ” said George .
“In this instance there is , ” said Marchdale .
“It is a name suggestive of horror.” “Made you any discovery ? ” said Henry .
You have now , as you can not help having , a disagreeable feeling , that you may find that one coffin is untenanted .
“Let it be done with caution , ” replied Mr. Marchdale .
“If any one can manage it , of course we can.” “Why should it not be done secretly and at night ?
Of course we lose nothing by making a night visit to a vault into which daylight , I presume , can not penetrate.” “Certainly not.” “Then let it be at night.” “But we shall surely require the concurrence of some of the church authorities.” “Nay , I do not see that , ” interposed Mr. Marchdale .
“It is the vault actually vested in and belonging to yourself you wish to visit , and , therefore , you have right to visit it in any manner or at any time that may be most suitable to yourself.” “But detection in a clandestine visit might produce unpleasant consequences.” “The church is old , ” said George , “and we could easily find means of getting into it .
There is only one objection that I see , just now , and that is , that we leave Flora unprotected.” “We do , indeed , ” said Henry .
“I did not think of that.” “It must be put to herself , as a matter for her own consideration , ” said Mr. Marchdale , “if she will consider herself sufficiently safe with the company and protection of your mother only.” “It would be a pity were we not all three present at the examination of the coffin , ” remarked Henry .
“It would , indeed .
There is ample evidence , ” said Mr. Marchdale , “but we must not give Flora a night of sleeplessness and uneasiness on that account , and the more particularly as we can not well explain to her where we are going , or upon what errand.” “Certainly not.” “Let us talk to her , then , about it , ” said Henry .
All we shall require will be a screwdriver , with which to remove the screws , and then something with which to wrench open the coffin.” “Those we can easily provide , along with lights , ” remarked Mr. Marchdale .
Flora changed colour , and slightly trembled , and then , as if ashamed of her fears , she said , — “Go , go ; I will not detain you .
Surely no harm can come to me in presence of my mother.” “We shall not be gone longer than the time I mention to you , ” said Henry .
“Oh , I shall be quite content .
Besides , am I to be kept thus in fear all my life ?
Surely , surely not .
If ever human being was justified in the use of deadly weapons , I am now .
Heaven protect me from a repetition of the visit to which I have now been once subjected .
Rather , oh , much rather would I die a hundred deaths than suffer what I have suffered.” “Do not allow it , dear Flora , to press too heavily upon your mind in dwelling upon it in conversation .
I still entertain a sanguine expectation that something may arise to afford a far less dreadful explanation of what has occurred than what you have put upon it .
He promised to meet them at the church porch exactly at nine o’clock , and matters were all arranged , and Henry waited with much eagerness and anxiety now for the coming night , which he hoped would dissipate one of the fearful deductions which his imagination had drawn from recent circumstances .
He gave to Flora a pair of pistols of his own , upon which he knew he could depend , and he took good care to load them well , so that there could be no likelihood whatever of their missing fire at a critical moment .
“Now , Flora , ” he said , “I have seen you use fire-arms when you were much younger than you are now , and therefore I need give you no instructions .
If any intruder does come , and you do fire , be sure you take a good aim , and shoot low.” “I will , Henry , I will ; and you will be back in two hours ? ” “Most assuredly I will.” The day wore on , evening came , and then deepened into night .
Do you know if she can use fire-arms ? ” “Oh , yes ; well.” “What a pity .
I have them both with me.” “Oh , she is provided.” “Provided ? ” “Yes ; I found some pistols which I used to take with me on the continent , and she has them both well loaded , so that if the vampyre makes his appearance , he is likely to meet with rather a warm reception.” “Good God !
was it not dangerous ? ” “Not at all , I think.” “Well , you know best , certainly , of course .
I hope the vampyre may come , and that we may have the pleasure , when we return , of finding him dead .
By-the-bye , I—I— .
Bless me , I have forgot to get the materials for lights , which I pledged myself to do.” “How unfortunate.” “Walk on slowly , while I run back and get them.” “Oh , we are too far—” “Hilloa ! ” cried a man at this moment , some distance in front of them .
“It is Mr. Chillingworth , ” said Henry .
“Hilloa , ” cried the worthy doctor again .
“Is that you , my friend , Henry Bannerworth ? ” “It is , ” cried Henry .
Mr. Chillingworth now came up to them and said , — “I was before my time , so rather than wait at the church porch , which would have exposed me to observation perhaps , I thought it better to walk on , and chance meeting with you.” “You guessed we should come this way ? ’ “Yes , and so it turns out , really .
It is unquestionably your most direct route to the church.” “I think I will go back , ” said Mr Marchdale .
“Back ! ” exclaimed the doctor ; “what for ? ” “I forgot the means of getting lights .
“I’ll fill you both in on all the steamy details.” “You’d better .
But not before noon , ” said Taylor .
“I’m going to hold you to it.” After Veronica and Taylor left , Melody glanced at her reflection one more time .
This time , Slade , you sexy bastard , she thought , you’re going to make me sing .
All night long… Chapter One Chelsey “Chelsey , wake up.” I opened my eyes and groaned when I looked at the alarm clock .
“Mom , I have two more hours to sleep , and I was up late studying .
What the heck ? ” She switched on the light and stepped closer to my bed .
“Sorry , honey , ” she replied , looking grim .
“I wasn’t sure if this could wait.” I rubbed my left eye .
“If what could wait ? ” She pulled her light blue robe in tighter .
“Your Aunt Jody called , ” she said .
“Melody didn’t come home last night.” Now that woke me up .
“What ? ” I asked , sitting up .
She sat down on the edge of my bed .
“I guess she went out with Taylor and Veronica around eight o’clock last night .
That was the last time Jody saw her .
She’s just going nuts now and doesn’t know what to do .
Have you talked to Melody recently ? ” I shook my head .
“No .
Not since her grad party.” The truth was that my cousin and I didn’t always see eye-to-eye .
In fact , ever since we graduated last June from high school , we’d barely been on speaking terms .
I figured it was because she was still pissed at me after I’d given her crap about sneaking shots of tequila at her graduation party .
Afterwards , she’d puked her brains out , but it hadn’t changed how annoyed she’d been at me .
I guess that ratting her out hadn’t really helped either .
The only reason I’d blown the whistle was because my aunt had backed me into a corner when she’d noticed that her bottle of Patron was missing .
I wasn’t very good at lying , and she’d known that .
“I’m sure she’s fine , ” I said , thinking about all of the other times Melody had pulled stuff .
“I mean , she’s eighteen now anyway .
She probably crashed at Taylor’s or Veronica’s.” After getting wasted , I wanted to say , but held back .
“Nope .
Jody called them .
They haven’t seen her since last night.” I yawned .
“Well , where did they go ? ” My mom pushed her dark bangs to the side .
“They went to over to Shore Lake to go watch some rock band play.” That was surprising .
Although Shore Lake was a tourist spot , it wasn’t exactly known for concerts or live bands .
“Where ? ” “I think the place was called Nightshade or something .
Anyway , they said she’d told them that someone else was giving her a ride home.” I’d heard of Club Nightshade , which was in the next town over , but had never actually been there .
A lot of the kids in school had raved about the place .
Some of them had even snuck in with fake I.D.’s when it wasn’t Teen-Night .
Supposedly , you could get anything in that place if you knew who to talk to – drugs , alcohol , even… sex .
“I didn’t know they had bands playing there .
I thought it was all hip-hop from the radio.” “I guess not.” She raised her eyebrows .
“Have you been to that place ? ” I rolled my eyes .
“No .
It’s definitely not my scene .
Besides , who has time for clubs when I barely have enough time for homework and studying ? ” I was a freshman at U.M.T .
and my life was filled with studying , homework , and more studying .
I barely had time to sleep or eat .
She stood back up .
“Well , maybe she met a boy…” I smirked .
“That’s what I’m thinking.” Plus , she had a reputation .
She went through more guys than I did paper .
“Well , I just wish she’d answer her mom’s phone calls and texts.” I decided to lay it on the table for her .
“Mom , look , I’m going to be honest – Melody is a major partier .
Heck , I know for a fact that last night wasn’t Teen-Night at that place .
So , she would have had to have gotten in with a fake I.D .
She probably drank and then went home with some horny jerk.” She scowled .
“Well , that certainly doesn’t make me feel any better.” “Sorry , but even you know that I’m probably right .
Did her friends say who was taking her home ? ” “No .
She wouldn’t say ; said it was a secret , but that she’d tell them later.” I frowned .
“Hmm… that’s kind of weird.” “I know .
Taylor seems to think that it might have been one of the guys in the band .
I guess she has a crush on the singer , and had been trying to get his attention the entire night.” “It probably worked , ” I said .
Melody had to be the prettiest girl in Beaver Creek .
With her blond hair , curves , and dazzling smile , she’d always been popular with the guys in school .
If she set her sights on someone at the club , chances were that they’d be putty in her hands .
“Boys in bands are trouble , ” she replied .
“Obviously , this just proves it.” “She’s not exactly an angel either , mom .
She’s probably in bed with him right now.” “Chelsey ! ” I shrugged .
“What ?
You know it’s true.” She sighed .
“I know .
I just don’t want to think about your cousin having sex.” I crawled back under my covers .
“I know , but I wouldn’t worry too much about Melody , mom .
If she was crushing on the singer , chances are she’s with him and not thinking about Aunt Jody right now.” “You’re probably right .
She is eighteen.” I yawned again .
“Just go back to bed , mom .
I’m sure she’ll be home in a couple of hours , puking and getting bawled out by Aunt Jody.” Chuckling , she touched my shoulder .
“I’m just glad that you’re responsible and don’t give me or your father problems like that.” I closed my eyes and smiled .
“You’re welcome .
Now let me sleep so I can get on with my humdrum life.” “It’s not humdrum , ” she protested .
“You’re preparing for the future.” I opened up one eye .
“Mom , it’s boring .
All I do is take tests and study , so that I can take more tests .
It’s kind of lame.” “You really think so ?
I don’t know , I’d love to go back to my college years , ” she replied wistfully .
“It’s where I met your father , you know.” I’d heard the story many times .
My mom had played hard-to-get and my dad had pursued her relentlessly , until she’d finally agreed to go out with him .
Five years later , they eloped in Hawaii , after she became pregnant with me .
“I know.” “Just hang in there , Chelsey .
We’re proud of you and it’s going to pay off someday .
Plus , if you’re going to be a Forensic Investigator , your life will eventually be anything but plain and boring.” “Yeah , I’m sure.” “Well , I’ll let you get back to bed , ” she said , squeezing my foot through the blanket .
“Make sure I’m up before seven , ” I called out as she walked out of my bedroom .
She turned around .
“I will .
I won’t be able to sleep until I hear from Jody.” After she closed my bedroom door , I thought about Melody .
Growing up , we’d been close , even though she had always been a little bossy .
Even at a young age , she’d always known exactly what she’d wanted and used everything she could to get her way .
Chances were , my cousin had gotten her way again , tonight , and was getting her freak on with that singer she’d been lusting after .
I had to admit , part of me was a little envious .
“Christopher , it’s ten past seven ! ” Augustus pulled his chin back in revulsion at the smell that greeted his nostrils .
“Get all this shit out of my room ! ” he barked .
“The stink of it is making me ill.” “Absolutely .
Perhaps a lighter breakfast ? ” Mr. Augustus had fallen back into a firm and belligerent snooze .
Lydia made the decision that Mr. Augustus could decide for himself whether or not he wanted to wake up , but nevertheless arranged for a servant to enter the room hourly to replace the glass of water at the bedside .
He slept all through the day and when Jane , Mary and Sandra arrived the next morning they discovered that he had still not left the bed , not even to use his en-suite toilet .
By Friday , Lydia had placed their contract with Mr. Augustus on temporary hiatus due to his sickness and had called for a physician and a psychologist .
In addition two private nurses were given the dubious chore of keeping the linen from becoming soiled and changing the IV drip that prevented him from starving himself to death .
When both of the medical experts had failed to reach a satisfactory diagnosis , Lydia began to feel that she was justified to begin throwing serious money at the problem .
It was a troublesome business for the exceptionally well paid team of doctors that moved into Mr. Augustus’ bedroom .
Physically there was no sign of any defect and neurologically he seemed in every way competent ; his brain waves were normal , his reflexes fine .
Everything was as it should be but for the fact that he wouldn’t stand up , leave his bed or speak more than a sentence .
Eventually they gave up on trying to develop an accurate diagnosis and simply put it down to being “a new form of M.E.” His business ran on successfully under the supervision of Lynda and he continued to live on in his house .
By the time May arrived , even his children had found out about him and arranged to meet up at his house to express their concern .
On the occasion of seeing his collected offspring ( most of whom he had not seen since he had their mother dealt with ) Charles Augustus finally began to speak .
“I suppose you bastards are here to try and get power of attorney , so that you can write yourselves back into my will.” Everyone in the room ( who wasn’t related to the man ) stirred immediately into action .
Doctors were already on their by the time he spoke his second sentence .
“Well , you can forget it .
I’m not sick ; I’m just fed up of everything .
I can’t be bothered doing anything and that does include talking to you .
So , please do me a favour and kindly piss the fuck off ! ” With that Charles rolled over to stare at his favourite blemish on the original Georgian wallpaper , the one that looked like an elephant riding a horse .
Every time one of his multiple unwelcome guests entered his room he couldn’t help but marvel at the fact that they didn’t notice it .
He started going to the toilet by himself again , just because it seemed like less work .
But , he still couldn’t be bothered to eat .
CONTINUES NEXT WEEK The Jackal Part IV Thornville could not shake an uncharacteristic feeling of dread as he rode towards Tobias Day’s home .
As he drew level with the front of the town house , the feeling grew .
The front door was hanging open and scuffmarks led from the porch out into the street .
Thornville drew one of his pistols .
The weight in his fist made him a little bolder .
“Bit of a do last night , eh ? ” Thornville turned to see a heavily moustachioed gentleman stepping out of a house from across the street .
“It was a young gentleman and lady , making a terrible racket , ” he said as he approached Thornville .
“That young Day fellow , he does keep odd company .
What with that noisy pair waking the street and then those ruffians turning up .
Owes money , I suppose ? ” The man stopped short when he saw the extent of the damage .
His gaze fell to the pistol in Thornville’s hand “Oh !
My , I’ve such a busy day ahead of me !
Must be going.” With that he scurried off down the street .
Thornville dismounted and tied his horse to a piece of jutting door frame .
He tucked his spare pistol into his belt and stepped through the ruined doorway .
As he entered the hallway , the stench of blood was overpowering .
Thornville stopped and steadied himself on the banister , peering about in the gloom , trying to fight off this feeling of dread .
Something crashed in the front room .
Jumping , he pointed his pistol at the open doorway .
It was then that he saw the blood .
Thornville felt the strength drain from his legs .
He swallowed , steadied himself , then moved towards the room .
Tobias Day lay in the middle of the floor in a pool of drying blood .
His throat had been slashed wide open .
Thornville , his mind numbed , stared at the scene before him .
This was not what he had expected ; this was not right .
He was about to open the curtains when something coughed in the shadows .
Thornville’s head snapped round , anger flaring .
A ragged bloody mess , lying in the corner of the room tried to rise .
Smashed porcelain lay strewn around it .
It appeared to Thornville , as his eyes adjusted to the darkness , to be a man .
Thornville leapt forward .
He grabbed the bloody figure by the front of his ragged shirt .
“Where is my daughter ? ” Thornville hissed .
The young man parted his swollen , split lips to speak but only managed a weak cough .
“Tell me where Charlotte is , or by all that is holy I will end you , right now , ” said Thornville as he tightened his grip on the man’s shirt .
“ ... Charlotte ... ” croaked the figure .
Thornville stared at him , recognition dawning .
It was that bloody painter , one of Day’s cronies !
He lifted the man a short distance from the floor , then slammed him back down .
The painter cried out in pain and tried to crawl away from his tormenter .
“ ... There were men ... they ... Where is Charlotte ... and Tobias ? ” All rational thought left Thornville .
With a snarl he flung Louis to the floor and dashed upstairs .
He tore through the house but Charlotte was nowhere to be seen .
Thornville stopped finally at the foot of the staircase .
He was panting .
Sweat ran down his face and his hair was awry .
A cold calm came over him .
“Cole , ” he whispered .
If that bastard has done anything to Charlotte I’ll have his head , he thought as he strode down the hall .
As he walked past the front room he noticed the painter crawling across the floor towards Tobias’ corpse .
Thornville stepped out into the morning light a thin , cracked cry of despair followed him .
Without hesitation he mounted his horse and set off for Soapers Hole , a natural bay where the Jackal made berth .
~o0o~ Charlotte lay upon a rough floor , staring , yet seeing nothing .
She was numb and cold inside .
Her thighs were stained with dried blood and her clothes little more than rags .
Once Tobias had been killed everything else seemed as if a blur .
She had been dragged through the streets , coarse hands pawing at her and harsh laughter filling her ears .
Then the smell and sounds of the docks followed and she had been bundled into a small boat .
She had passed out but woke to find herself on the deck of a larger ship .
Leering brutish men were all around and standing in front of her was the tattooed man who had killed Tobias .
He had laughed while he raped her , while the others leered at her .
She stopped fighting after the first few , and then lay still as the other pirates took there their turns .
Now she was abandoned and bloody somewhere below deck , staring at the hard wood floor , waiting to die .
Time passed and sounds began to filter through her deadened senses : the creaking of the ship ; skittering noises as rats skulked in the darkness .
Slowly , she became aware of a barely audible , high pitched keening .
Charlotte rolled onto her side and put her hands over her ears in an attempt to muffle the uncomfortable sound .
She jerked into a sitting position as the noise increased in volume , her hands clamped to the side of her head .
As she sat up , waves of nausea threatened to overwhelm her .
She reached out to steady herself .
The keening stopped .
Surprised , Charlotte glanced at what was supporting her , then at the rest of her surroundings .
She was resting against an old stone box in what appeared to be the hold of a ship .
Charlotte could not tell for how long she had been down here .
She became aware of faint voices in the distance .
Panic gripped her .
“I think they’re in there taking the piss , ” Jon told Biggy .
After the fourth knock went unanswered Biggy and John bashed in the door .
The house was silent .
Rotting foodstuffs decorated the living room and what had once been a respectable middle-aged couple were sitting naked together on the couch , watching a television that was showing only white static .
Once Biggy and Jon had discerned that even holding a rifle directly against the man’s genitals and threatening to shoot wasn’t going to motivate him back to work , they gave up the residence as a bad loss and quickly moved on to the next .
The second house appeared to be occupied only by a cat until closer examination revealed its owner to be sitting slumped in a wardrobe : “I can’t come out , ” he told them .
“I can’t stand to see the house this way and I can’t be bothered tidying it.” “But your cat , ” Jon protested earnestly , “surely you don’t want your cat to starve.” “Oh , I’m sure the rats’ll be along soon enough .
Have you seen it down there ? ” Each door they knocked on revealed another bad loss until they reached the middle point in the road when much to their surprise they got actually got an answer .
It was from a gangly looking student type who instantly sneered at them when he saw their uniforms : “Haven’t you heard ?
The country’s on strike ! ” Biggy and Jon were already getting desperate and were doing their best effort at intimation .
“You know we’re authorised to use lethal force against any able-bodied person who refuses to help the country.” “Fuck you , Nazi ! ” said the gangly student type .
Biggy’s fist levelled the young man instantly and he and Jon dragged him by his legs out in to the street .
When they found the most visible spot they could , Biggy ordered Jon to fire shots in the air .
He waited a moment to give people time to get to their windows .
“Are you going back to work ? ” shouted Biggy .
“I have never worked.” There was a loud crack as Biggy’s size thirteen boot fractured several ribs .
“Are you going back to work ? ” The young man repeated his previous reply .
Jon dropped his knee on to the young man’s solar plexus and landed a punch that shattered the bridge of his nose .
“Are you going back to work ? ” The gangly youth didn’t have the strength to reply , but he managed to find enough strength to spit some blood at them .
“You better not have AIDS ! ” Jon squealed .
Biggy put the young man in an arm lock and twisted it almost to the point of snapping the wrist .
He slowly increased the tension in a way that suggested he wasn’t going to stop until the job was finished .
“I’ll ask again , are you coming to work ? ” The young man did his best impression of a scoffing laugh and slowly shook his head .
The limb burst open and their victim fell to the floor screaming and definitely incapable of going to work .
“A fat lot of good that did.” “You never know , Jon ; it might scare some of the others into being a bit more helpful.” It didn’t .
Door after door plodded on with rooms full of people who just wouldn’t move .
Nobody else answered their door and the only brief glimmer of hope that the two soldiers got was from the few houses they found that were empty .
By the time Biggy and Jon had made it down to the train station neither one of them especially felt like knocking on another door .
“I can’t believe no-one’s looted those shops , ” Jon was saying .
They had just passed through the main town centre ; most of the shops had been left unoccupied , unlocked and fully stocked with consumer goods .
“I’ve half a mind to do it myself .
I wonder why no-one’s stealing anything , ” said Biggy .
“You’ve seen them , listless fucks.” “My point is , if people can’t even be bothered stealing , how are we going to get them to work ?
What can you offer people who don’t want anything ?
And , how are you supposed to light a fire under the arse of someone who can’t even be bothered eating ? ” “Well , we could try that couldn’t we ? ” Jon suggested .
“You know , set their houses on fire - get them out in to the street.” “It’s worth a shot , I suppose ; they’re all going to die anyway.” By the time that the two soldiers reached their next area , they were completely resolved on their course of action .
Biggy and Jon kicked in the front door of every house along Victoria Road and lit as much of a fire as they could manage .
As most of the houses were rental properties they were fitted with smoke alarms so there was plenty of warning to the occupants .
Once they had a fair blaze on the go they stood out at the other side of the street in a supermarket carpark and waited for the occupants ( or at least some of them ) to come rushing out .
As they waited it began to dawn on the two men that fire would not be enough .
They could hear screams but not one single person even attempted to get out .
Neither one of them talked on the way back to the Racecourse .
When they finally made it back to the helicopter they found that it had been entirely abandoned and stripped of its supplies of food and alcohol .
A scruffy note on one of the seats read , “Cheers for the food .
Sorry I can’t make it to work tonight.” Biggy and Jon lay down and slept on the grass of the Racecourse and in the morning they continued to lie .
The Jackal Part V Below deck on the Jackal , strange things were afoot .
The hold had filled with a cold , grey mist .
Thin tendrils of the stuff were creeping their way up onto deck and into cabins .
Deep within the murk , Charlotte remained motionless , as if in a trance , the obsidian statue clutched in her hand .
Behind her , a writhing , shadowy form began to materialize .
Outside , as if in answer to some unheard summons , a heavy sea fog was rolling into Soapers Hole and towards the pirate brigantine .
Along with the fog , a small boat made its way towards the Jackal .
On board were Manfred Thornville and one of the Jackal’s crewmen , Isaacs .
Thornville had his pistol aimed at the pirate as the man strained at the oars .
Elsewhere on board the Jackal , Captain Cole moaned and thrashed in his sleep .
The drunken stupor could not lessen the torment of his dreams .
With a start the captain awoke , then gaped with fear as tendrils of fog twisted their way under his door .
~o0o~ “I can feel your pain…” said a dry and impossibly ancient voice deep in Charlotte’s mind .
She blinked and stared into the gloom before her , looking for the owner of the strange voice .
“I can feel your desire…” Charlotte spun around .
What is this , what’s happening ?
Her mind raced .
Are they coming back for me ?
She crouched and cast desperately around her , looking for any sign of the pirates returning .
Then she saw the shadow looming in the fog .
“I can give you what you want…” Charlotte glanced at the statue she still held and then rose unsteadily to her feet .
“How do you know what I want ? ” she whispered .
“I can taste it .
I can hear it , smell it , every fibre of your being cries out for it .
You want vengeance.” The shadow moved closer to Charlotte , still whispering in her mind .
“With my help , it can be yours…” Charlotte opened her mouth to speak , and then stopped as the fog parted before her .
A tall , half naked man stepped out from the churning gloom .
His eyes were rolled back so Charlotte could only see the whites and his flesh was a criss-cross of fresh scar tissue .
He went barefoot and his hair hung to his shoulders .
Something shifted under his skin ; it was as if something else were in there with him .
His body convulsed and his eyes flicked back down .
They were a bright piercing blue .
“What have you done ? ” the figure gasped .
He could not take his eyes from the volcanic glass idol .
“Do not listen to anything that thing says , I implore you ! ” he said as he stepped forward .
“What ... who are you ? ” said Charlotte backing away from the man .
He stopped .
“Wait , please , I beg you !
My name is Alexander Saintjohn and that thing you hold , it is very dangerous !
You risk your very soul by simply being near it.” “He lies , ” whispered the voice inside her head .
Charlotte looked at the statue , than at Saintjohn .
She gripped it tighter .
Saintjohn’s skin twisted , something shifted under his flesh .
He staggered , eyes clenched shut in concentration .
“I do not have time ... ” he gasped , “You must return that ... to the stone box ! ” He stopped , bent double and panting .
“I don’t have time to fully explain it .
Your soul is in peril.” “What of the soul ? ” whispered the ancient voice .
“When you have been through so much pain , your body has been ruined and your lover bled like a pig in front of your eyes .
What do you care for flighty notions of the soul when this is allowed to happen ? ” Saintjohn took a deep breath then straightened ; he had himself under control once more .
He continued .
“I have sacrificed a great deal to keep that thing from this world ; my earthly possessions , friends and family , even my body !
I remain in limbo between the worlds , keeping it locked away .
Yet still it persists , and you risk letting it loose .
Whatever those men have done to you could not be as terrible as letting that thing roam the earth once more.” The ancient thing that nestled within Charlotte’s mind waited .
Charlotte’s expression became cold .
Deluca came to mind , but Angelo knew intuitively that wasn’t the answer the bartender sought .
What was his poison ?
“My heart.” The bartender gave a slow nod of understanding .
“A man who can answer that honestly , deserves a goddamn drink.” The bartender reached beneath the bar and withdrew two more shot glasses , which were casually set next to the empty glass the barkeep had just cleaned .
Angelo gave a faint smile .
“Line’em up barkeep .
I’ve had one hell of a night.” The hitman managed to say this without a tremor .
The bartender pulled out a transparent glass bottle which he sat beside the small trio of empty shot glasses .
This unlabelled bottle was half full with a crystal clear liquid that Angelo pegged as homebrewed moonshine .
It may not have been rum , but anything that could kick like a mule was welcome company on this side of the rainbow .
The bartender poured out a measure of hooch into the first glass , a strange concoction that was the color of dark russet .
Angelo immediately studied the bottle , noted how the liquid inside had not changed from its transparent texture .
How was that possible ?
The second shot glass was filled , except this recipe wasn’t brown , but a deep shade of sunset scarlet .
The bottle’s mouth then kissed the third glass and out spat three fingers of watery black oil .
Still , the transparent solution within the unmarked bottle remained ever clear .
“And one more for the sinner , ” the bartender said as he touched the bottle to his lips and tossed back a good stiff hit .
The bartender then set the bottle back down where Angelo once again examined it closely .
There was still no sign of discolor to be found within .
“Neat trick , ” Angelo said with a curt laugh .
His voice sounded a bit breathy , chilled , but steady just the same .
“What do you do for an encore ? ” The bartender fixed Angelo with an expression which may have been either respect or cold calculation .
“You’ve still got your wit .
That’s good…for a dead man.” There it was , dead man , those telling words , the goddamn finality in them .
“So , when do I get to meet God ? ” The bartender crooked a smile and then gave the slightest hint of a chuckle .
“Got a bunch of questions flapping around inside that mean head of yours , don’t ya Angelo ? ” “Riddled with them , ” Angelo replied .
The hitman felt as though he should be relieved , that finally he was going to get some answers .
But that weird feeling that had given him the unfortunate news that he was dead earlier said words to the contrary .
It told him to keep Thunder and Lightning close , and to be extremely cautious of the bartender .
Angelo let his eyes fall onto the drinks .
They were beautiful , but that gut feeling could sense their danger .
They were supernatural potions as prescribed to the damned , and although Angelo craved a good hard drink , the warning within his heart wanted no part of those eerie tonics .
Still , his curiosity was ravenous .
What did they do ?
Why had the bartender poured out three ?
Was the barkeep expecting company , some other drifter to come waltzing in through the door ?
Angelo could feel the fireplace pour heat back into his icy body , and as a result his hands and ears ached terribly as the blood slowly made its way back into his frozen veins .
Still , the hitman took it as a good sign that on some level , part of him was not only human , but alive as well .
However , questions continued to rattle around inside the hitman’s head like bats in an attic , the biggest question of them all involved the ghostly drinks on the bar .
Why three ?
“I’m not your guardian angel , Marchetti , ” the bartender said with a serious intonation .
“I am what I am , and what this is depends on if you want to know.” Angelo went to harbor a question on just that , but the bartender raised a finger in silence .
“I’m not a sympathetic ear nor a priest to absolve a confession of sins , Marchetti .
You’ve come to Boondocks and like those before , you will adhere to the house rules.” Angelo thought to ask , or what , but kept silent .
He didn’t need a confrontation at the moment , even though the pain inside his hands had slowly begun to fade .
True , they were recovering , but they were far from being useful in a shootout .
The ladies would have to sit and wait regardless .
“Take your fill death merchant and lets have at it with due diligence.” The bartender’s eyes briefly caught sight of the door as if to look beyond and out into that bitter darkness that sucked the life out of the very soil .
“There’s sinister work to be done this night , and as always my service is to Sartomonius.” Again , Angelo thought to field a question , but he could tell that the bartender had yet to finish his nonsensical spiel , which didn’t sound so much like a riddle , but a rant .
“Three drinks have been poured before thee , and three drinks you shall bear , fates damn you.” The bartender then let his hollow eyes sweep along the shot glasses with such a fierce gaze , that Angelo was almost certain that they would burst into flame .
“See them well death merchant , and see them through from brown to black .
Taste of one , and a question shall be granted an answer .
Taste of another , and an answer shall favor curiosity once more .
Drink the third and the last words asked shall be met with certain knowledge.” The barkeep crossed his arms and nodded decisively .
“These are the house rules of The Last Chance Saloon , death merchant .
So as they were…are…and forever shall be.” A wide pompous grin aligned the barkeep’s thinly wound lips .
“Complete these three tasks and then safe passage from Boondocks shall be granted , so say the house rules , amen.” Angelo shuffled uncomfortably upon the barstool , wanting very much to knock the shot glasses and the bartender onto the floor .
The hitman didn’t care to be spoken to in such absolute terms .
The only orders Angelo received came from a fat guy they called the Big Greasy -- -Romulus -- -not some ugly suds monkey with a shiny handlebar moustache .
Thunder and Lighting suddenly felt as though a heat had begun to emanate from within their well-oiled chambers .
They didn’t care much for the bartender’s tone either , but Angelo kept them leashed as he didn’t yet fully grasp what he was up against .
Perhaps on this side of the rainbow bartenders were bullet proof and ate mafia hitmen for nice light snacks .
Angelo would play it cool , drink his fill of magic hooch and then ask three paltry questions .
What could the hitman possibly hope to learn from such a limited exchange ?
Directions to the bathroom -- -where to get a good cigar -- -if they sold those beef jerky strips that he enjoyed so much back in the land of the living .
What would he ask ?
But more importantly , what did those drinks on the bar do ?
Angelo examined the shot glasses with a mindful eye .
The drinks had an almost incandescent quality , a glow that seemed to pulse like a faint heartbeat .
Were they alive ?
Parasitic organisms that wormed their way into the brain via the liver ?
Angelo’s cold but steady fingers picked up the first shot glass of brown and raised it in a toast salute .
“Here’s mud in your eye , barkeep.” With that said , the hitman threw back the muddy drink in one quick toss and then slammed the glass back down onto the counter .
The aftertaste was like damp soil that had been laden down with a snarl of slick earthworms , the kind of vermin that fed on funeral casket parfait .
The hitman wanted to gag , but he kept that reflex in careful check lest he appear weak in the barkeep’s eyes .
Always the tough guy .
As for Angelo’s eyes , they were a completely different story .
They had a mind of their own , rolled lazily around inside his head as if their owner were totally exhausted and ready to pass out .
However , the hitman’s mind remained wholly alert , its thoughts plotting a course of action , like the most efficient way to aim Thunder and Lightning with his vision on the fritz , and how much those special ladies would weigh inside his cold grip .
The killer hands at the ends of his wrists prepared to respond , to bring on the storm , when his eyelids suddenly steadied .
The hitman regarded the bartender with a not too impressed sentiment , to which the barkeep grinned fiendishly .
“Tough as nails and thrice as sharp , ” the bartender said with a shake of his ratty head .
The bartender had seen many a soul pass out over the ages , some even die .
Very few stayed conscious after tasting a good stiff shot of yester , let alone remain seated on their barstool like this mean spirited thug had .
“Now death merchant , gaze into my mirror and show me your poison .
Then I’ll fancy thee with an answer to your first question.” Angelo thought to sarcastically ask for another tip of brown , but worried that might constitute a genuine question .
Instead , he bade the bartender’s request and let his keen eyes examine the mirror on the back wall , his body always warming , hands always preparing .
The mirror was enormous , framed in by golden ornaments which resembled human and animal bones alike .
It stood before a huge selection of spirits , booze that came in many different sizes and colorful bottles .
Of course part of that bounty was an illusion , the mirror’s reflection added dimension to the room and exaggerated the amount of liquor by a factor of two .
Still , it was a good stash , perhaps even enough to get a few dozen loan shark leg breakers nice and jagged .
As for the looking glass : it changed , resembled a pool of liquid chrome , a surface whose boundary could not easily be plotted .
Its high sheen surface rolled like a seamless wave upon a lake of silver sterling .
It had taken on an entirely different dimension , one that perhaps did not reflect images but imitated them , because in truth there had never been a mirror there to begin with , just a large smooth eye that showed what it saw and saw what it coveted .
Angelo tried to look away , but was unable to pry his eyes free from the freaky sideshow mirror .
The mirror hooked the hitman’s sharp wits by the brainstem and pulled his soul out through the apertures of his unblinking eyes like a black hole swallows light .
Angelo’s posterior remained planted upon the barroom stool but his mind tumbled through time and space , thoughts dizzy on a stiff shot of yester .
But before Angelo Marchetti’s essence impacted with the warped border of the barroom mirror , he heard a recognizable sound .
It was grating and made the stomach tighten in a way that only one noise could .
It was none other than Mount Hope’s mid-morning recess buzzer .
Her first crush that did n't involve a boy band poster taped to her bedroom wall ?
By the time they were done eating , she felt worn out and exhausted .
She hated how weak she’d become .
She’d always wanted to be a cheerleader , or dance on her high school’s drill team , but her cancer had robbed her of her dreams .
Now her vision was shot , her breathing almost always labored , and staying awake for an entire day was nearly beyond her .
“I’ll be right here if you need anything , sweetie , ” her mother said as she tucked Cassidy in that night .
“No , Mom , ” she protested , still trying to catch her breath from the ordeal of moving onto her bunk .
“You never know when you’ll be able to enjoy a night out like this again .
Go with dad , and enjoy yourself .
I’ll be fine , really.” It took some extra convincing , but finally her parents left her to herself so they could explore the ship and try to have a good time .
Cassidy fell asleep before the door shut .
If there was one thing that was a positive to the cancer , it was that when Cassidy slept , she truly slept .
Short of waking up to vomit , which was always worst after a treatment , Cassidy generally slept through the night .
When she woke up in the middle of the night , she stared at the odd shapes in her bedroom lit by the displays on her monitors .
She did n't feel sick , which confused her .
Was it the warm tropical air that had woken her ?
The next oddity came to her as she clearly saw the clock showing that it was one a.m. in the morning .
Her parents weren’t back yet .
She was glad they were having a good time , but it did n't help explain why she 'd woken up .
She tried to roll over and go back to sleep , but soon realized that she was wide awake .
“I don’t feel any pain , ” she murmured .
Her eyes widened and she marveled at her fingers as she curled them into a fist and then straightened them .
“I don’t feel any pain ! ” she stated again , this time more loudly .
Pain had been like a familiar passenger in her body , always present , and always making sure she was aware of it , only going on vacation when she slept or was on the strongest of painkillers .
Not only was there no pain , but she felt good .
Hesitantly at first , afraid that this was all a dream , she pushed the blankets away from her body .
When she found she wasn’t winded , she sat up slowly and continued to stare at the world around her .
Even as she looked around her room , she couldn’t believe how clearly everything appeared to her .
She could make out the threads in the carpet from the light coming in under the door .
She couldn’t quite read the signs next to the door , but she could see that they were there .
“Am I already dead ? ” she asked herself , pinching herself , and flinching from the tiny pain .
“Alive , then , ” she mumbled , still marveling .
What was going on ?
One by one , she moved her feet to the floor , then took a deep breath , and for the first time in over two years , she pushed herself to her feet .
The heady feeling of finally being able to accomplish something on her own , crashed through her .
She had to stifle a yelp of joy .
Her first step felt as though she had performed a minor miracle .
When she followed it up with another , and then another , she couldn’t contain her joy anymore .
Laughing , she propelled her way to the door .
She couldn’t stop there , though , and pushed her way out into the hallway .
Where are mom and dad ?
She wondered .
She had to find them .
Something miraculous was happening .
Maybe the climate or maybe some of her drugs were working .
Maybe the cancer had gone into an impossible remission !
The hallways were empty , most of the passengers already in their bunks .
Cassidy tried to remember where the announcer had stated the late-night entertainment would be .
She hadn’t planned on watching any of it so she’d mostly ignored the voice from the loudspeakers .
Even as she’d worked her way to the top decks , she still couldn’t get over how wonderful she felt .
Had she been cured somehow ?
The impossible thought would n't go away , but she couldn’t understand how she felt so good .
Cancer didn’t just disappear .
She took a moment to stand at the railing , looking out over the ocean as the cruise ship moved steadily through the water .
Clouds filled the dark sky and blotted out the stars .
The moon was full and enough of its silvery light broke through to create a kaleidoscope of reflected light off the waves .
She realized that she was giggling , and took a few moments to get herself under control .
No one was around , but it wouldn’t do to have someone thinking she was crazy .
Even if she had to be .
It did n't matter , she felt so good she didn’t care what people thought of her .
A movement out in the water caught her eye , and she looked to see what it was .
After a few seconds , she gave up the exercise as futile .
Even with her restored eyesight , she would never be able to see something in the dark water beneath her .
Cassidy started to turn when a twinkle of starlight on the waves caught her eye .
She looked and was certain there was something darker than the surrounding water out there .
The water swirled behind it , upset by its passage .
She wondered if it was a whale , but if it was why did n't it come to the surface to breathe ?
For a good three minutes she watched the thing swimming out there .
She had the uncanny feeling that the creature was aware of her .
She gasped when it turned sharply and headed straight for the boat .
Turn , she silently urged the creature , not wanting it to hurt itself against the side of the cruise ship .
It swam on , heedless of her wishes .
When the shadow was maybe fifty yards out , it melted back into the surrounding water .
“What are you doing out here ? ” a masculine voice asked , making her jump .
Cassidy turned , and saw one of the Make A Wish Foundation workers approaching her .
“I woke up and felt great , ” she said , still surprised at how good she truly felt .
“Where are your parents ? ” he asked next .
Cassidy noticed a weird gleam in his eyes , but dismissed it .
He must be as happy as she was about her newfound health .
“I came up looking for them .
Have you ever heard of someone suddenly waking up , and feeling better ?
I wonder if it has something to do with this climate.” Cassidy turned back to the railing , breathing in the salty air .
If it was truly making her feel better , then she wanted all she could get .
“These things happen for a reason , ” he said as he came up to stand next to her .
He offered her a smile and added , “And sometimes they need a little help . ''
Cassidy gasped as the man 's hand clamped around the back of her neck .
It felt like a steel vice squeezing her and left her too stunned to do anything .
His other hand grabbed the back of her pants and lifted .
She yelped but it was a breathy squeal that was barely loud enough for her to hear , let alone another person on the cruise ship .
Before she could draw in breath and try again she felt her stomach rise into her chest .
She flailed , realizing she was free , and then saw the dark waves rushing towards her .
She hit the water hard , knocking her senseless .
The shock of the warm water rushing into her mouth and nose spurred her into action .
She thrashed in the water and struggled to reach the surface .
Her lungs burned for want of the air she had n't breathed in before she fell in .
Her heart crashed against her ribs as she kicked .
Fear gave her strength that she didn’t know she had .
Her fingertips broke through the water into open air .
New hope surged through her .
She was going to make it !
The threadbare carpet was replaced with something amusingly named shag-pile .
It was much more comfortable to sit on and it was blue .
Grandmother cleaned it with the carpet sweeper on Thursday mornings and , when I’d left school and was unemployed , she trained me to help her with the top steps , because she had problems with her balance .
Mother had started work at the launderette and would not return home until 8.30 at night , her hair smelling of washing powder and her hands red and cold .
She’d eat alone in the kitchen at the breakfast bar , whilst Grandmother and I watched TV .
Her traditional greeting when she joined us in the living room was “Are you still up ? ” a signal for me to go to my room .
I noticed changes in Grandmother very early on .
She’d let a pan boil dry , forget what she’d gone upstairs to fetch , and eventually forgot who and where she was .
The nurses at the home have far more experience and patience than Mother and I could ever have shown her , but I miss her presence and her smell of Pond’s face cream and lily of the valley perfume .
I’ll visit her tomorrow and tell her the terrible news , but for the moment I need to sit on my third step and take in my architectural design .
I’d kept Grandfather’s penknife sharp for the moment when it would , as he’d continually reminded me , come in handy .
It’s created a neat slit across Mother’s throat and the straight line is not wavering as her red life seeps away .
Kermit the Frog and Christopher Robin sang about halfway down the stair as a place they preferred to sit , but I prefer the third step from the bottom where the view , tonight , is delightful .
THE END 61ST OF SEPTEMBER by Gary Murphy Stylo examined the sole of his left shoe , cursing as he did so , seeing the slime .
Fucking worms got everywhere…ever since the Great Terror Event levelled most of New York City in 2025 .
The United Kingdom had got it worse when for their involvement in the World War , they had been struck by multiple nuclear warheads deployed in the Middle East .
The missiles had wiped out their entire population and turned the country into a deserted wasteland .
The worm fraternity had swollen across the globe , multiplied massively and were everywhere to be seen…small , icky things slithering overground and up walls and inside drainage pipes .
It was no surprise anymore when the world’s population woke in the morning to enter their kitchens or bathrooms and see them wriggling about in the sink or bathtubs .
He felt lucky .
His balls itched .
Stylo lived alone in Harvard Heights directly above the recently constructed Harvard Moon Institute of Knowing .
He did all domestic chores himself .
But tonight , after being deposited on the apartment patio seventy floors up in the tallest aluminium building in the Big Apple and courtesy of the city Shuttle Bus , he finally decided despite himself to order a LadyBot for the evening .
A ravishing Marilyn Monroe-lookalike , he thought .
He would settle down for a night of Chinese chow and rampant sex .
Clones were more interesting nowadays .
He stood on the balcony overlooking the city’s neon skyline .
Not the city it used to be since the attacks but still New York without a doubt .
He admired the diseased view as floating Shuttle Buses drifted past , above and around the block…a great and inspired way to earn Jewel-Stone Credits .
The bus service was a Maiden Company operative form of inner-city transport imagined by businessman Mitchell Ransom years ago and now overseen and part-controlled by his great-grand-daughter , Molly .
Thinking of Jewel-Stone , he reached into his pocket for his device .
‘Jewel-Stone Bank Credit , ’ he said and within a second his balance appeared scrawled on the tiny view-screen .
65 , 000 Jewel-Stone Credits .
‘Enough to be getting by on for any humanoid , ’ he told himself , and examined his berry-plants growing in pots on the balcony .
To his dismay , he saw the soil in the pots had worms inside which were slowly but surely pilfering his berries .
He reached for his device again .
He said , ‘LadyBot Call Service , do you respond ? ’ ‘…Usual time…and usual place , sir ?
We have your precise location logged in our databank…’ ‘Affirmative , ’ Stylo said , and added , ‘…But I want a Marilyn Monroe .
Also I want her extra-skinny this time , with small but ample breasts , and brown eyes instead of blue.’ ‘LadyBot dispatched straight away , sir .
She’ll arrive by Sky Cab…’ ‘Thank you , ’ he replied and put the device back in his pocket .
He looked at his berries .
‘Fucking parasitic bastards , ’ he cursed…these slimy slithering little beasts .
‘The Great Terror Event wiped out most of the population , but increased your input in civilisation.’ He paused , adding , ‘Soon you’ll be in charge , giving humanoids orders !
Like the Chinese…’ Stylo had been administered the Existo-Longevity drug when he was a worldly forty four years old .
That was a hundred and six years ago and he was currently as fit and strong and as youthful-looking as ever , and extremely grateful to the Existo-Corporation for extending his earthly lifespan .
Stylo felt secure and snug in the knowledge that he could return to Existo given another hundred years or so and do the same again .
And although the world was mostly submerged in sand and there were places barren and off-limits , he knew that with life-expanding corporations like Existo the civilized planet would soon return to its old self , yet with world wars sprouting up and childhood obesity in abundance .
Begrudgingly optimistic… ‘Charles , ’ he said .
The spindly robot emerged from the kitchen .
‘Just finishing the washing of dishes , sir.’ ‘Charles , I want you to go downtown for a couple of hours…I’m expecting company .
I’ll give you some Jewel-Stone Credit so you can visit the arcade and play the Virtual Top Gun Velocity.’ ‘But haven’t you heard , sir ?
The worms…’ ‘…Worms , Charles ? ’ ‘Please , sir .
Go to the balcony and take a look out onto the streets below .
The full extent of the disaster is in excess of millions.’ Stylo did just that , but looking down saw nothing .
Night was drawing in and this obscured the view .
But looking more intensely he was taken aback and then shocked .
Below and covering the streets was a thick black river that primarily looked like a moving , glistening slime .
But in fact it was an ocean of worms .
His balls stopped itching .
Luck had vanished .
‘My God , ’ he said , awestruck and bewildered .
‘The terrorists have outdone themselves this time.’ Suddenly next to the balcony the yellow Sky Cab pulled up and to his horror the Marilyn stepped out .
Instantly Stylo told the Cab to wait , seeing the state of his Call Order .
He said , ‘I said skinny !
Not a goddamned skeleton !
Please – go – just go ! ’ ‘Oh , but please , ’ uttered the clone .
The bot even had the same dulcet tones as Marilyn .
‘You mean to say , I came here for nothing ?
You don’t approve ? ’ ‘Where’s your scanner ? ’ he asked .
Marilyn reached into her handbag , extracting a Credit Receiver .
Stylo inserted his Jewel-Stone Card and typed in his module codes .
Once she thanked him graciously , she hopped back in the Sky Cab and Marilyn Monroe was gone .
Hookers were the same world over , robotic or not they had to give a little back to the pimp !
‘Look , master , ’ Charles said and as Stylo watched from the balcony he knew it was the end for New York once and for all on this 61st of September…New York , himself , Charles and everything that New York stood for , and everything in the ‘free world’ .
Jewel-Stone Credit wouldn’t get anyone out of this .
A massive grey-black worm emerged from the inner city grounds and rose up to face the world for the first time in its sickly existence .
Then another giant worm , and then another , and another .
They tentatively rose and straightened their spineless backs to stand arrogant and tall over the Big Apple’s skyscrapers .
Taking the tall buildings in their mouths , they bit down into their concrete flesh and the sound of falling or crumbling rock deafened the listeners .
As for Stylo and what he could hear and amid the not too distant midst , it intermingled with the terrified wails and screams of civilians in their homes , as well as on the street below .
Stylo Green watched from his apartment balcony window as more and more mutated beasts emerged from the ground .
He guessed it was only a matter of time before the festering local radioactivity and disease sprung something like this on the remaining humans .
These monsters transmitted a signal to the world that this was what you could expect from the outcome of chemical or nuclear war , the end product and the result of a final solution .
It was so pathetic it was laughable .
Stylo eventually broke down and cried in a collapsed heap on his lounge floor .
The future was shit .
There was no fucking future .
He scratched his itchy scrotum .
So much for lucky… ‘Charles , ’ he said , ‘Prepare my bed .
It’s been a long day and I’m tired .
A good long sleep will do me the dying world of good.’ CONTINUED NEXT WEEK… THE LITTER by Daniel Davis Dad and I found the kittens out near the reservoir .
Seven of them , shut up inside a cage probably meant for a single large cat .
There was a handwritten note taped to the front : Yours if you want them .
“Dear Christ , ” Dad said , kneeling down .
He stuck his finger through the bars of the cage , letting the cats sniff and lick him .
He glanced up at me .
“It’s a cold bastard who’ll let a living being into his home and not treat it like family , ” he said , letting the words sink in before he turned back to the kittens .
“I guess we have some new family members now , don’t we ? ” I was nine .
Our dog Eddie had died a couple months before .
Walk around door to door force-feeding people ?
Muck out their houses ?
What ? ” “I’m not asking you to do anything but acknowledge that you’re lucky .
I have to look after my dad but you don’t have any responsibilities at all .
You could be doing something - I’m going to try , which means I won’t be visiting much and I know you won’t cycle to Prenton just to see me.” Smith sighed ; he’d been dumped enough times to know when it was coming .
He played the only card left in his deck , the Jack of Pity .
`` Look , you’re right but look at me .
I’ve had this game fifteen years and I’ve never once completed it .
I can barely make myself dinner , saving the world is beyond me .
I’m an all or nothing type .
I can’t do moderation .
How do you think I ended up like this ? ” “Your parents’ death ?
I don’t know.” Corrine squirmed emotionally for a moment and then realised what Smith was doing .
“Look , you can’t just sit here playing video games while the world dies .
I don’t think the electricity will last that long.” Smith knew that she was right and it burned at him , but he still didn’t feel as though he could honestly help anyone .
Corrine was staring at him , intently waiting for an answer .
“I have an old Gameboy colour and ample batteries .
Sure it doesn’t have Sonic but I’ve got Double Dragon .
Besides , there’s always books.” “Look Smith , I’m leaving .
At least there’s some hope for the rest of the world .
Maybe I’ll see you in it someday.” “Wait.” Smith wasn’t sure if he was about to launch an effort to hurt her feelings or if he genuinely loved her .
It felt like the latter and he wanted it to be the former .
“Do you know where my bike is ? ” Corrine nodded .
“You should take it , I don’t think I’ll be needing it anymore ...
Since I have no-one to visit.” “Thank you.” She kissed him on the cheek with greater tenderness than he had ever been kissed .
“I’ll miss you.” And then she was gone .
Smith tried to console himself with the fact that she had left most of her tea and it saved him making another cup .
He went back to his game and tried to play it through but there was one thing that kept on nagging at him - the electricity .
Wolf Moon Chapter One Two brothers pelted through the dark forest , casting terrified glances over their shoulders .
Shouts and cries still rang from the trees behind them , in the direction of the flickering light of a campfire .
Aulus caught his foot in a hidden tree root and went crashing down on his face on the hard-packed earth .
Immediately Titus was at his side .
‘Aulus ! ’ he hissed .
‘Are you alright ? ’ Aulus groaned , clutching at his shin in the darkness .
‘I suppose I’ll live , ’ he muttered .
‘But we’ve got to get moving .
Those men were after us .
What are they ?
Bandits ? ’ Titus looked back towards the clearing where they had camped .
He could hear the old physician talking loudly to his captors .
Aulus blundered to his feet .
‘Come on !
We’ve got to get moving ! ’ He hobbled away and then stumbled and almost fell .
Titus shot out a hand to steady him .
He drew Aulus close , and directed his attention to the distant clearing .
‘We can’t leave them , ’ he insisted .
Aulus looked at him pityingly .
‘Did you see how many bandits there were ? ’ he asked .
Titus fell silent .
They had been travelling for some days across Italy towards the Alps , wandering through the wide , open countryside on foot when they couldn’t hitch lifts on ox-carts , and sleeping rough .
Titus had kept Uncle Tiberius’ letter of introduction safe in his pack throughout the journey .
It was still a long way to Pannonia , the city of Carnuntum , and the First Legion , but until that night the journey had been uneventful .
That afternoon they had fallen in with a travelling Greek physician named Ajax and his boy , Zeno .
The physician had suggested they band together for protection , since he had heard news of bandit attacks .
As they travelled on , Titus had been amazed to discover that the physician was on his way to Upper Pannonia too , to replace the existing camp physician in Carnuntum .
It had seemed like a stroke of fortune to be travelling with someone more experienced who was going their way .
But that evening , just as they were sitting down to eat supper , the bandits had attacked .
Seven or eight men , all of them as big as any Praetorian or City Guard back in Rome , had burst into the clearing where Ajax had led them and hobbled his donkey .
Aulus had grabbed Titus and bundled him from the clearing .
Zeno had sprinted after them , but when they reached the edge of the clearing they saw that the bandits had grabbed Ajax .
Zeno had turned and run at them , but Aulus had dragged the protesting Titus away .
Now he was having second thoughts .
He felt in his tunic .
‘We can’t leave , ’ he told Aulus .
‘Watch me , ’ Aulus panted .
‘What do we owe to those two Greeks ? ’ Titus shook his head .
‘They were good to us , they warned us about the bandits…’ ‘For all we know they were in league with them , ’ Aulus replied .
‘But it’s not that , ’ Titus added .
‘Uncle Tiberius’ letter – I left it behind ! ’ Aulus stared at him , the pale moonlit oval of his face aghast .
‘Where are those lads ? ’ The distant shout rang out from the trees between them and the clearing .
‘Hunt them down , ’ it added .
‘We can’t let them get away .
Keep on at these two , Corocotta !
We’ll grab the others.’ Titus and Aulus ducked down in the cover of a laurel bush and strained their eyes towards the blundering dark figures in the middle distance .
The aromatic smell of the leaves reminded Titus of working in his father’s kitchen , and powerful wave of nostalgia almost overcame him .
He shook his head .
‘What are we going to do ? ’ Aulus hissed .
‘We could go back to Rome and ask Uncle for another letter.’ Titus shook his head tightly .
‘We can’t leave Ajax and Zeno , ’ he insisted .
‘Besides , if we turn back and start again it’ll be autumn before we reach the Alps and we might have trouble crossing them .
No , we’ve got to get back to the camp.’ Aulus was silent for a while as the bandits crashed about the undergrowth , moving further and further away .
‘Very well , ’ he said .
‘We’ve got to sneak back , then , and see what’s what .
They must have left men with the physician and Zeno.’ Slowly the two boys made their way back to the edge of the clearing , slithering on their bellies like snakes , or scuttling through the bushes like rabbits .
The yellow light of the flickering fire licked at the trunks on either side of them as they peered out .
Five people were in the clearing , three bandits menacing the two Greeks Aulus and Titus had befriended ; a drably-clad youth their own age with olive skin and curly hair , and a white-bearded old man in a green tunic .
Standing over them were the three bandits , men clad in tatters but carrying military issue swords .
They were looking in the direction their comrades had taken .
As Titus watched , one spat into the fire and snapped at the physician .
Ajax shook his head .
‘We met them on the journey , ’ he replied in his reedy but authoritative voice .
‘We banded together for protection , if you’d believe it .
Now let my servant and I go .
You’ve established we have nothing to interest you .
I must be in Pannonia before winter.’ The bandit – Corocotta , presumably - shook his head .
‘Those drugs and herbs could find a buyer in Ravenna , ’ he replied .
‘They have need for eye-doctor’s simples and nostrums .
They’ve all got eye diseases…’ ‘The proximity of the marshes , ’ Ajax told him .
‘I don’t care what it is ! ’ the bandit roared .
‘I’m taking them .
He was reaching down to glide into fourth when he saw the pale shape , a small figure that grew large too soon , from nothing to five-feet-six in only three seconds , and J.D .
barely had time to see the face in the sweep of headlights .
Later he would tell himself that there was no way he could have observed all that detail in a fraction of a second .
It was his imagination that must have painted the portrait .
Eyes like a spotlighted deer 's , wide and brown , impossibly deep .
Eyebrows frantically climbing the white slope of forehead .
Mouth open , choking on a scream that could fill the Holland Tunnel .
It was a glancing blow .
J.D .
did n't remember doing it , but he must have nudged the wheel slightly and his virgin-tight rack-and-pinion responded instantly .
Otherwise the Camaro would have bucked and rolled , tumbling through the shin-high corn and strewing vital organs and steaming spare parts across the stubbled fields .
At over a hundred , mistakes got amplified .
But in that overdriven moment , J.D .
was more car than man , high octane in his blood as he manipulated the automobile back onto course .
His foot had instantly left the accelerator but he had resisted the impulse to lock down on the brakes .
The braking instinct was natural , but the resulting fishtail would have had J.D .
ending up with a drive shaft necktie .
The muffler growled as he downshifted and when he reached sixty he began working the brake pedal .
He pulled to the side of the road and felt his heart beating in time to the idling pistons .
`` Damn , Cammie , '' he said , when at last he was able to take a breath .
`` That was a close one . ''
He left the engine running while he opened the door and stood up , disoriented from the abrupt change in motion .
He walked to the front of the car and knelt at the right fender .
There was a crumple in the panel and the headlight chrome was dented and hanging loose .
He took off his glove and ran a gentle hand along the fender and a few chips of candy-apple red paint flaked onto the shoulder of the road .
He saw a smudge on the bumper and wiped at it .
Blood .
He looked back up the highway , but under the veiled moon , he could n't see anything on the pavement .
J.D .
got behind the wheel and shifted into reverse .
`` I 'm so sorry , Cammie , '' he whimpered .
The closest thing he’d ever had to tears tried to collect in his eyes .
`` It was just an accident . ''
He held the horses in check as he backed up , keeping the revolutions steady .
The crankshaft turned quietly in its pit of golden thirty-weight .
He 'd damaged her flesh , but he could take care with her heart .
J.D .
pushed the gas pedal gently as he cut a U-turn and drove up the road .
He killed the engine when he reached the body , but left his headlights on .
The first exhalation of night fog swirled in the low beams as he loomed over the figure .
She was wearing a dress .
The cotton was tattered , but it was a pretty dress , butterfly yellow , the kind that should have been easy to see at night .
Her slim legs were sticking out below the hem at an obtuse angle , a scuffed sandal dangling from one big toe .
The other foot was completely bare , a red sock of blood where the skin had peeled away .
Her arms were accordioned under her chest and she was face down .
Her hair was brown , and the big curls fluttered in the breeze .
A pool of crimson was spreading out from under her belly .
She was leaking like a busted oil pan .
He touched her skin where the dress had slid down one creamy shoulder .
This was a dairy girl , J.D .
was positive .
Must have crept out her window and met some little boy blue behind a haystack .
Come blow your horn .
She had no business being out on the road at that time of night .
He turned her over and wished he had n't .
That split-second portrait before the accident had been of a pleasant face , one with round cheekbones and plump ruby lips and strong nostrils .
But this , this was like a bag of beef soup that had been dropped on the highway from a helicopter .
This was roadkill .
`` You shouldn'ta been out so late , '' J.D .
whispered .
`` Now look what you gone and done to yourself . ''
He glanced at one white exposed breast that had managed to avoid visible harm .
Then he let her roll forward again .
Her bones rattled like lug nuts in a hubcap .
`` Now what am I going to do with you ? ''
he said , licking his lips .
He looked both ways but there were no headlights in sight .
`` Ca n't leave you out here , that 's for sure .
Might get yourself run over , and then where would you be ? ''
That , plus J.D .
did n't want his ass behind bars for second degree murder .
A few speeding tickets were one thing , but this deal meant some hard time .
At state prison , a pretty boy like him would be up on the blocks in no time , and the grease monkeys would n't wait for every twenty thousand miles to give him a lube job , either .
He stood up and looked around .
He could slide her into the ditch , but that would be leaving things up to luck .
She might be found before morning if some gap-toothed farmer came out early to get a fresh squeeze of swollen udder .
And who knew what the forensics boys would come up with ?
He thought of the paint flakes up the road .
They could look into those little microscopes and say whatever they wanted to , and the cops had been after him for years .
`` Nope .
Ca n't leave you here . ''
He walked behind the Camaro and unlocked the trunk .
He unrolled a tarp that was stowed in one corner .
He did n't want to mess up his trunk carpet .
He took off his leather jacket and tossed it on the passenger seat , but he kept his gloves on .
The night smelled of cow manure and car exhaust and sweet , coppery body fluids .
Cammie 's engine ticked as it cooled .
He patted her on the hood as he went past .
Then he stooped and lifted the broken body .
It hung like a rag doll , with too many universal joints in the arms and legs .
It was light , too , as if all its gears and cogs had slipped out .
He put her in the trunk , hearing the largest chunk of her skull ding off the wheel well .
He walked up the road until he found the other sandal , then he tossed it in and closed the trunk .
He drove back to town without breaking fifty-five .
It was raining by the time he hit the outskirts .
Mama must not have heard him come in .
She was already gone when he woke up , down checking side stitches on boxer shorts for five-and-a-quarter plus production .
He was glad he 'd slept through her coffee and butter toast .
That made another half-dozen hundred questions she 'd never get around to bugging him with .
He winced when he saw Cammie in daylight .
He has a skateboard in one hand and a baseball bat in the other , his large sack of toys strapped to his back .
I want to yell a warning when I see Mack rush past , but he does n't make it far as Santa clocks him straight in the teeth with the wheels of the skateboard .
When it becomes embedded in the man 's skull , Santa lets go of the board and hits the next running target in the back of the head with the baseball bat .
He throws that aside and then reaches back into his bag for something else .
He pulls out a teddy bear .
Snarling , he rips it in half and throws each half at the two victims .
He reaches back again , and this time pulls out an ice skate and a wooden toy train .
Clearly satisfied , he goes after two more people .
The ice skate makes quick work of one woman .
Santa slowly bludgeons the other one to death with the wooden train .
Santa stomps away , out of our field of view .
I breathe again .
Knowing that this would n't be happening if we kept up our end of the deal , my mind wonders to earlier in the night at the town hall meeting ... '' We did n't get three prostitutes this year , '' John , the town sheriff , said as soon as everyone was present .
As Mayor , I dropped everything else that was to be discussed .
The town depends on John to find three women every year , and he had never let us down before .
`` What ?
Come on , you know what happens when he does n't get three . ''
`` There just are n't enough , '' John said , his eyes darting away from mine .
Mack , a respected member of the community , nodded his head in affirmation .
`` You know the deal . ''
My blood felt cold .
`` How many were you able to get ? ''
`` Two , '' Eddy , the deputy sheriff , said when John could n't answer .
`` You ca n't find one more ? ''
Unable to keep the concern from my voice , I put my hands flat on my desk to keep them from trembling .
`` If he would n't take them away every year , we 'd have plenty .
The girls are scared .
But even if they were n't scared , we 'd still only have two , '' Mack said .
Ah , yes , the harem at the North Pole .
When they realized they 'd never be able to return home , prostitutes all over town stopped volunteering and changed their professions altogether .
Looking from Mack to Eddy and then John , I asked , `` Why are you only telling me this now ? ''
`` I was keeping up hope that one more would come forward , '' John nearly whispered .
`` You idiot .
You know there 's no such thing as hope during Christmas . ''
I wanted to kill the man , but I knew his fate was decided .
All of our fates were decided .
Three , tall , long-legged beauties help him beat off his frustrations through his north pole .
If he does n't get that , he unleashes his frustrations in other ways .
As it were , I found myself standing nervously outside of City Hall as fear itself approached .
My palms were sweaty as I rubbed my gloved hands together .
My mouth was dry .
`` Ho !
Ho !
Ho ! ''
The red habilimented terror sounded as jolly as he usually did .
The red-suited man was soon standing before me , his beady watery eyes on the two prostitutes that volunteered this year .
`` Hoe !
Hoe !
Hoe ? ''
He glared at me and I could see murder forming in those watery depths .
Then he looked at the first prostitute .
`` Hoe ! ''
Then the other .
`` Hoe ! ''
Then to the empty space where a third should have been standing .
`` Hoe ? ''
Knowing exactly what was coming , I took off .
There is no such thing as being the hero for something like this .
He was checking his hit list , checking it twice , and I was number one .
That 's when Rudolph was unleashed upon me ... A scream to our left brings me back to the present .
The children squirm closer to me as Dasher gnaws on the bloody stub of Steven 's arm .
Steven owns the gun shop down the street .
Why not just kill the bastard ?
That 's been tried before .
The homicidal fuck and his minions are immortal .
Every time anyone has tried to shoot the Claus , the asshole would laugh as if he 'd just been tickled rather than shot .
Even the damn deer laugh .
Nukes would n't stop their rampage .
The fat man 's voice booms through the air .
`` Dasher , Dancer , Prancer , and Vixen ! ''
Dasher jumps into the air and disappears .
I make eye contact with Steven .
He 's alive , but barely .
`` Come Comet , Cupid , Donner , and Blitzen ! ''
Several reindeer rush past , all gathering at the sound of Santa 's voice .
`` Rudolph ! ''
Yes , Rudolph , answer that fucking call and get the fuck out of here .
And , just like that , they are gone .
The kids next to me start crying .
`` Go , find your parents , '' I say .
We crawl out of the drain through a river of blood , some of it already starting to freeze at the edges .
I kneel next to Steven and do what I can to stop the bleeding .
His arm is completely gone .
`` I think , '' Steven 's breath is ragged , `` I think that I 'm going to try to leave . ''
`` You ca n't , '' I remind him .
People try to leave all the time .
Anyone who tries is met with tragedy .
It 's a wonder any of us are left , really .
The Sawyers died in a plane crash .
The Taylors died in a sinking ship .
The Edwardos died in a car accident .
When the Smiths started walking , they fell through the ice just as they got outside of town .
`` Any death is better than this life , '' Steven says .
He has a point .
I 'm not sure why I bother myself .
Putting my hand on his shoulder , I nod my head grimly .
`` Oh , thank goodness .
Mayor Weston , you 're alive ! ''
Eddy rushes up to me , out of breath and covered in blood , but otherwise unharmed .
I do n't dispense with pleasantries .
Each evening I rebelled .
Soon the leaves began to change color ; subtly dimming from bright green to a paler , subdued yellow .
As I lay on the tiled floor , I realized how much I wanted to see the garden .
That night , I did not struggle as they injected me .
Instead I lay still on the floor , looking into their eyes .
For four days I exhibited no revolt against my captors .
The next morning , I woke not encased in my suit .
I sat up , and flexed my arms and legs .
When the men entered , they carried no tube or funnel .
Instead they offered me a small paper cup , which I gingerly accepted .
I drank the fluid from the cup , returning it carefully to the man’s hand .
I sat back and watched them leave .
I had been a ‘good girl’ , I now awaited my reward .
Next morning , the white coated men led me by the hand along the corridors to the tiled room .
The floors felt good on my bare feet , although my leg muscles protested slightly .
Arriving at the room , I walked to the window , and looked out onto the garden below .
“Good morning , Valérie.” The thin man said .
“My name is Dr. Fabrini ; you may call me Alvise.” He came to my shoulder , but never touched me , pretending to enjoy the luscious view along with me .
It seemed to be his gesture of trust , knowing full well the likelihood of my turning to attack .
For the first time in my short life , mind overruled instinct ; the small chance that I might feel nature beneath my feet offered an incentive a father’s approving voice never could .
“This view never fails to impress me , ” he said whimsically , “I have worked at many asylums over the years , Valérie , and none offered such amenities .
Most facilities I’ve seen could pass more for dungeons than a hospital ; cave-like walls , dirty and crawling with infestation .
“Alvise , please , ” He forced a grin .
“In the facilities I speak of , Valérie , the treatment you have endured here is reserved for only the most well-behaved patients .
You would not want to know what becomes of the… less cooperative… inmates.” Only then did I realize the doctor had successfully baited me into a dialog .
I kept my eyes forward , unwilling to grant him any further victory .
He continued without my input , “You have your father to thank for your luxury accommodations , Valérie .
Mr. Lidowitz has invested much of his wealth sending you here and insuring no harm befalls you .
His devotion is something quite spectacular and quite rare , my dear.” “You’ve spoken to my father ? ” I bit my lip , punishing them for allowing the hasty words to pass .
“Oh yes .
He personally commissioned my fellowship here , relocating my entire family from Sicily out of his own funds.” I looked up into his eyes .
“Does my father ever visit me ? ” Dr. Fabrini smiled .
“He watches you sometimes , and wonders.” I turned to the garden , and pretended to take in its details , but I felt consumed by a longing to see father once again .
He still cared for me .
At last I broke my gaze from the beautiful landscape and took in the full measure of Dr. Fabrini .
He looked a young man , yet had the finest brush of gray at the temples .
I’d never seen eyes so clear , blue as crystal water .
Great patience lay behind them ; and curiosity besides .
“Why would my father have done such a thing ? ” “Your father loves you.” Dr. Fabrini tried to appear humble , “I have a good deal of documented success in matters of healing the mind , Valérie .
Your father is a tenacious man ; he did his research .
And now here I am.” “My mind is not sick.” I sneered .
He continued as if I’d not spoken , “Most physicians in my field tend to focus on punishment for poor behavior .
I believe in reward when appropriate behavior is exhibited.” The doctor cupped his hand around my wrist .
Immediately , I knew I could break his hand to splinters , crush the bone to powder if I so chose .
But , I tucked the knowledge away for another day and allowed him his show of dominance .
“You have earned your first reward.” Through a long , white labyrinth of halls , he led me to a heavy pair of thick , oak doors .
For the first time since being dragged in through those doors they were opened to me and I felt a rush of brisk , clean air in my face .
Were it not for Dr. Fabrini’s persistent hold upon me , I would have run out into the open fields and put the asylum at my back forever .
Instead , I walked out like a mutt on a tether , knowing my frail muscles would take little catching .
My bare feet sunk into the sharp blades and I felt a thrill run up my toes and through my body .
The air felt moist with the promise of a coming downpour .
Above , clouds were gathering and I remembered quite suddenly the sensation of bathing in the fresh rain .
I remembered Father holding my arm- much the way Dr. Fabrini held me now- as I struggled to leave the dry awning of the porch and rush out into the storm .
At last I managed to wriggle free , leaping from the stone steps and into the driving rain .
Arms open and face up to the heavens , I spun and rejoiced gloriously .
Laughing , Father ran to me , flung me into the air and twirled me about .
There we danced together even as the clouds thundered above .
For the first time in all my years away , I knew a longing to be held in the arms of someone who loved me and shame for my inability to love in return .
Dr. Fabrini tugged at me as the first sprays of droplets coated my face .
I wanted nothing more than to stay and dance beneath the purging clouds but I knew my only chance at feeling the grass on my feet again would be to go quietly .
Slowly , I bent and plucked a single blade from the ground .
I clutched it in my palm like a treasure and Dr. Fabrini graciously allowed me my prize .
Doctor Fabrini Such became our custom over the following stretch of days .
Each time I behaved , I was allowed a little further outside and for incrementally longer spans , but always with Dr. Fabrini at my wrist .
All together I collected eighteen blades of grass .
On the nineteenth such excursion , Dr. Fabrini walked me to a thicket of vegetation that hid an arched footbridge over a narrow creek .
For the first time ever , he let go my wrist and motioned for me to cross of my own volition .
I could have jumped the creek in a single bound , but still I walked the wooden bridge , pausing to glance over the side at the still and shallow bed .
“Just there , ” he said , pointing to a lattice-encased gazebo on the other side .
I followed the direction of his finger and entered the obscene structure .
A half-circle of benches pushed up against the round walls .
Dr. Fabrini sunk onto one as if immersing in a tub of tepid water .
He motioned for me to sit upon the opposite bench and I did , the crisscrossing lattice obscuring my view of the nature around .
“Isn’t it marvelous , ” he said with a deep sigh .
“It feels like a cage , ” I replied obstinately .
Dr. Fabrini smiled sagely , “You have an innate distaste for anything man-made , Valérie.” “It’s a cage ! ” I said again .
“It’s a place to sit and enjoy the surroundings.” “I can sit on the grass and not have to squint my eyes to see my surroundings through pieces of wood , or get splinters in my feet from these chopped up boards.” “Shoes might be helpful to you in that department , ” he shrugged , glancing down at my dirty feet .
“Shoes keep me from feeling the grass.” “I see we will never agree on this subject , ” he told me resolutely , “but I am quite happy to sit on this bench and enjoy the scenery from here.” “Grown-ups are always happiest when they’re sitting.” I accused .
“A bunch of lazy , useless beings that do nothing but get in the way.” That seemed to perk the lounging doctor’s interest , “Get in the way of what , Valérie ? ” My tongue fell suddenly mute though every nerve in my body seemed to recall the persistent hassling of maids as they brushed and dressed me , scrubbing at my face and pulling at my hair .
Forever working to tame the unruly little girl that wanted only to run and climb in the open air .
“Society is a rigid place , filled with rules of conduct , ” Dr. Fabrini said as if reading my thoughts , “Those rules can be overbearing and , for some , overwhelming , Valérie .
Yet , to co-exist peacefully with our fellow humans , we each must learn to follow them.” The doctor looked me over as if deciphering some hidden code .
At that moment I hated him for his self-proclaimed insight and knew for the first time since our meeting that Alvise Fabrini stood in mortal danger of getting too close .
Getting no response from me , Dr. Fabrini continued to push .
“Have you been told the story of your birth , Valérie ? ” I threaded my fingers through an opening in the lattice , restraining the desire to break through it and tear down the walls that separated me from outside .
“Or… should I say- the story of your mother’s death ? ” I could not help it .
The thin pieces of wood disintegrated in my hands , the latticework shredding as I stood , my hands ripping through the screen , tearing it asunder .
My eyes only saw red .
I remember panting and trying to catch my breath , the world suddenly spinning around me .
My mother had died giving birth to me .
From the depths of my soul I began to scream .
I did not even notice the approach of the muscled orderlies .
So intent on my rage , I did not register the first hands on my limbs .
Only when their strong grip began forcing me inside the stiff , starched , canvas uniform , did I step back from my fury .
But by then it was far too late .
I had killed my mother by sliding from her womb .
A murderer at birth .
In a moment of stillness , as they pulled the buckles tight , I glimpsed Dr. Fabrini’s slight figure walking across the lawn towards the house .
I tried to call his name , but the opening of my mouth proved the opportunity they needed to gag me , forcing the metal bit between my jaws , knocking me silent .
Realizing for the first time from this vantage point the white sacks were scattered everywhere , however they hadn’t managed to migrate down to the fungal ridge , “Good Yahveh ! ” He was shaken and confused , “What are these things ? ” Listlessly he backed off the boulder , the resonance of his quickening heart pounding in his skull .
In the same instance his alarmed eyes followed the white masses higher up the mountain , having a gut feeling that snooping Uwee pursued the objects up the Cliffside without a second thought to any real threat .
He somehow felt responsible for putting him in that danger .
Without further thought he too trailed the strange white sacks upwards .
“Aaaaaaaa , ” He gasped as one of the sacks undulated oddly , seemingly pulsating whenever he was near .
Hadge feeling his heart and head hammer amid near blinding terror , with every eternal step drawing him closer to the unknown .
Steeper and steeper up the hillside he’d gone .
Looking out across the dark valley of Elysium , until his eyes reached the deteriorating remnants of Old Harrier Road that had long since collapsed .
The road was something they had used long ago to travel between cities , leaving behind disintegrating concrete supports in the middle of nowhere , as mangled metal beams lain twisted like fibers of a rope , and the road no longer lead to anywhere .
Hadge climbed atop chunks of asphalt and concrete , near the mouth of the mountain .
He felt warned by the mouths endless blackness , pulling himself up by the rusting guardrail , no more than thirty feet away from the entrance .
The guardrail had been warped by a huge metal structure with wheels , plowed to the point both surfaces mirrored the other .
The paint on the metal structure had long since faded , as he recalled that the elders had in the past called this metal thing a truck .
The truck had been wrecked .
Its load of metal drums finally eroded away , as its foul smell waft far and wide .
The terrible odor was even capable of traveling passed his swollen soama filled sinus cavities .
The sickly yellow waste traced the same path the strange white sacks apparently followed , he couldn’t help but wonder if something horrific grew from out of the sickening waste .
Seeing that his attention returned to the wreck , moreover the barrels from Novena Military base .
The base was no more than ten miles away , up the third hill of Ennead Mountains .
Then to his surprise the bones of an unfortunate soul was found wedged between the front fender of the truck and the guardrail .
It had been there a long time by the large human size , the right side barely recognizable , with a sharp piece of grill piercing its right temple .
Sympathetically he felt a connection of phantom pain , even as he unintentionally rubbed the hollow spot on his own temple , experiencing such a profound mourning .
Whispering , “Poor guy .
I wonder who he was ? ” Sensitive to the mans death , “At least it was quick.” Yet he was curious to why the creepers hadn’t consumed the skeleton .
“Hmmmmm.” He considered , “Maybe the barrels deterred the beasts.” The barrels were quite disgusting , and grabbed his nose chuckling as he limped backwards , “Awful.” At once in the broken and dirty window of the truck he could see that strange glow from somewhere behind , he moved ever so slowly to search the darkened landscape .
“Achooooo.” The sneeze had come from out of nowhere .
As the light quickly faded and blackness lingered , followed by a subtle clicking noise .
Just as he turned realizing the mountain was papered in that same odd silken threads , with the loose ends eerily drifting amid the brisk air , like ghostly figures in the dark .
Then a clicking came from the left , he found nothing , next swishing from behind , still naught a thing , and to the right .
Something was toying with him .
“What on Elysium is going on ? ” Hadge had an overwhelming sense of terror picking at his brain .
He crumpled to his knees in paranoia and fear , with his head between his hands .
Seeing for the first time an unusual black stick beneath him .
The strange object was three to four feet in length , pointed at the tip , spanning sharp thorns down one side .
Then he suddenly noticed hundreds of those same black objects littering the ground everywhere .
Defeated and dumbstruck at that particular moment to the issue , he wondered , “What are they ? ” Suddenly something moved near the mouth of the mountain .
His mind instantly pictured black soulless faces of the reavers , its long black twisted fingers clinching a blackened weapon .
Recalling the forewarning of the elders , “The reavers watch the road.” As his mind quickly asked , “Could the reavers have gotten Uwee ? ” Forcefully he pushed the panic out of mind , “No ! ” Wanting very much to believe , “Its Uwee.” Alive or dead he couldn’t leave him here .
Hadge stealthily turned towards the warning blackness of the mountain .
He had that uncanny feeling of being watched , yet that feeling had become much more prominent , like millions of eyes processed his every move , his every life taking breath .
His heart pounded violently , like the moments before death , the pounding smothered all other sounds into oblivion .
Even as he surveyed the black for signs of the culprit , while his short fingers knowingly found his trusty dagger at his waist , ready for any engagement .
He almost welcomed anyone who dares try .
Then the atmosphere changed , charged electrically as every hair on his body stood on end .
When an instant of tiny white light could be seen at the other end of the tunnel , followed closely by ghostly hovering blue torches .
One by one the torches materialized along the remaining stretch of mountain road , hissing as they lit , while others suspended themselves where roads had formerly been .
With all that was hidden in the darkness abruptly becoming quite clear .
The bluish flames burning away some of the heavy darkness caging all to this world , like a fragment of hope .
All the quarrels around him seemed to have just melted away , as he glanced to the heavens and the dark didn’t appear so dark anymore , and the burden of temperature was neither hot nor cold , like living in a perfect dream , unable to tell truth from deceit .
When his rational side suggested that the crimson soama might be altering his perception .
In that same instance he heard a muffled squeal , as his sight followed the sound into the once blackened tunnel , which was now eerily bathed in blue light .
The tunnel packed with network after network of the same silken webbings , even as massive dark creatures three times his size skittered about , their abdomens intermittingly glowing , red , blues , and greens .
Very similar to the fireflies he used to remember , but the wings have become useless due to the size .
The sticks were actually the remains of spiders that had been cannibalized by each other .
“How else could something that size survive without significant source of food ? ” Since they’d eaten bugs on this mountain to extinction .
Then a darker thought crossed his mind , “Even I could be food.” Feeling his body instantly shrink back .
Hadge’s eyes lifted higher , seeing debris of animals and humanly corpses dangling among the webs of unidentified cocoons .
Sure that unimaginable horror plagued those still alive , knowing what death may come , and he feared Uwee might have stumbled right into the monsters lair .
Even as he noticed one of those hideous spider creatures were attempting to prod a wriggling white cocoon .
Something was still alive , and promptly he thought of Uwee .
“Uwee ! ” Hadge screamed in horror , knowing positively it had to be his friend .
Without thought to personal injury he leapt forth into the spiders den , heading straight for the wriggling cocoon .
The spider loomed above him , rearing its hideous barbed legs in sweeping motions , clicking with every movement .
He looked up into the black beaded eyes of this demon , at the same time as dozens more shifted all around him , all clicking in unison , every movement he made they followed .
Still he inched closer to his friend , armed with the small dagger from his belt .
Wondering as he moved , “Why haven’t they attacked ? ” Then another curious thought occurred to him , “They followed me all the way here , but still didn’t get too close.” “Achooooo ! ” A halo of dust particles dispersed throughout the tunnel .
As he irritably growled , “Of all times for an allergy.” Swiftly refocusing on the spiders , as they had oddly recoiled , recognizing for the first time , “They fear me.” He was given the time he needed to free Uwee from the cocoon .
The gooey white threads were harder to cut than he’d thought , slowly exposing Uwee beneath those perilous fibers .
Immediately discovering that he looked rather sickly , with several puncture wounds on his shoulder .
The puncture was probably a way to subdue its prey , so they may eat them alive .
Finally Uwee fell free from the cocoon , as Hadge quickly pulled him upright , edging closer to the entrance .
Then that overpowering feeling of being watched crept up his spine .
Exactly as something black lashed out at him , gashing his forearm , and he nearly dropped his friend .
The spider quickly withdrew , screeching out , as if in great pain .
“No ! ” Hadge howled watching the spiders unsettling actions .
Very sure now , “They fear the mushroom dust.” Now it all made perfect sense , “That’s why they haven’t migrated beyond the crimson soama .
Its like a poison to them.” Hadge knew that the only hope they had was to get to the fungal ridge before the dust was gone from his clothes .
Seeing darkened figures lurk in all directions , hundreds the way they had arrived , the army of spiders really left them no choice .
At what time he moved towards the path of least resistance , where Old Harrier Road abruptly dropped off .
The road littered in rubble of concrete , rebar , and asphalt , scattered all along the mountainside below .
Which would lead them to the fungal ridge and deter the spiders .
Only if they could survive the fall .
However Uwee was in no condition to do anything , as he supported his lithe body .
Taking into account of the soama he’d breathed , in tandem his arms flogged his encrusted clothing , subsequently launching the fungal dust in the air around them , temporarily confusing the spiders , giving them precious time .
The cracks and debris in the concrete increasingly grew worse , as his feet launched rocks over the edge , and they crashed along the cliff below , exploding into tiny fragments as they struck solid surfaces .
However the echoes of the rocks long treacherous journey terrified him most , reminding him once again that the fall could kill them both .
His thoughts laughing hysterically , “Caught between a rock and a hard place.” As he searched the edge for an escape , fortunately discovering exposed rebar holding the remnants of a concrete support close to the end of the highway .
Just five feet below where he presently stood , while the other end was jammed into the mountainside .
Morbidly he envisioned how his potential plan might end , with two lifeless bodies dashed on the jagged rocks below .
“Stop it ! ” He needed to be positive .
Even as he grabbed Uwee tightly by the waist , without further thought and they plummeted off the end of the bridge .
Landing hard on the concrete below , and he instantly scrambled to his feet , dragging Uwee down the support , like a child’s slide .
As dozens of spiders had followed , tugging at Uwee’s comatose legs , a literal tug of war .
They had at last inched their way to the sanctum of the fungi , happily kicking the dust into the air .
Overwhelmingly Hadge couldn’t help but sneeze over and over , laughing as he spread the dust further .
Watching the spider’s retreat .
Temporarily feeling relief , even as he was hacking and coughing .
Hadge knew it still wasn’t safe to be here , all the noise had carried throughout every dark corner , even as more sinister creatures could be coming here this very minute .
Then he weakly pulled Uwee over his unaffected shoulder , heading in the direction of home .
She kept one three-subject notebook for all her classes , and it was mostly filled with her drawings .
Neil stood in the doorway to the living room , tall , gangly , disheveled in workpants and a dark blue windbreaker jacket over a denim work shirt , unruly brown hair , big hands , red nose , angry burst veins in his face .
His eyes were blood red .
From this angle , he looked very big .
Neil worked day laborer jobs .
The motto of the company that hired him out was Work Today , Paid Today .
Neil’s motto was Paid Today , Drunk Today .
When he was very drunk , he could get a wild , dangerous light in his eyes – like now .
Things got broken when Neil had that look in his eyes .
Like lamps and dishes .
Like Jessie’s arm one time .
She had to lie about it to her teachers and say she fell off a swing .
He had spanked Jessie before – pulled down her pants and spanked her bare ass .
More than once .
Jessie could remember the hurt and helpless anger , the sting of his rough palm against her flesh .
He shouldn’t pull her pants down , shouldn’t be allowed to do it , but Gail was the only one who could help her and she had done nothing to stop him .
Neil had slapped Gail before , even gave her a black eye once .
Gail had gotten him arrested before .
In fact , she had an order from the judge against him right now , but somehow he was still here .
One more time , Gail told him , one more time and he was out .
It went around in circles like that .
Around and around and around .
But he never seemed to leave .
“Neil ? ” Gail said from where she sat on the couch .
“Honey ? ” Jessie’s mom Gail was still beautiful .
Maybe a little bit lined from all the worry , but still pretty with blonde hair .
Before Neil came in , Gail had been watching the news on TV , while smoking a cigarette and having a glass of wine .
Now , Jessie glanced at her mother , and saw the fear flash in her eyes like lightning .
She was as scared of Neil as Jessie was .
“We need the money he brings in , ” she often said to Jessie , by way of explaining things .
But it wasn’t true .
They didn’t need his money – he didn’t bring any money in .
He worked all right , but he drank all the money they paid him before he ever made it home .
Young as she was , Jessie brought home more money than he did .
The truth was Gail was afraid .
She had enough money from her waitress job .
It was her name on the lease .
She had the order from the judge .
But she was afraid what Neil would do if she finally tried to throw him out .
Jessie didn’t need to be a grown up to know that .
And things were complicated .
Jessie knew that , too .
When Neil wasn’t drunk , he could be nice .
Her mom liked having him around during those times .
But now wasn’t one of those times .
Neil pointed down at Jessie .
His eyes were wide , huge .
His face was haggard and blotched with red .
He accused her like a preacher from the pulpit , condemning her to the eternal fire .
“This little girl of yours skipped school again today .
A little bird came down and told me .
She was in the Old Port , hanging around with boys twice her age .
Men , really.” His voice rose , full of meaning .
It became almost a shout .
“Girl , what are you doing down there with those men ?
You let them touch you ? ” Jessie’s whole body tensed .
Her heart pounded in her chest , and her body coiled like a spring .
There was something strange about Neil tonight .
It was like a twig in his mind had snapped .
He had it all wrong , of course , but that didn’t matter .
Neil knew what he knew , or thought he knew , and there was no way to tell him different .
His face darkened , like a thunderstorm rolling in .
Jessie glanced to her right – there was a second doorway in this room , and it went out to the eat-in kitchen .
From there , she could dart through the back door and out to the tiny deck .
If she made it that far , she would vault over the railing , drop half a story to the back alley , and be gone .
She was in her socks – little white ones that didn’t even come up to her ankles , with pink pom-poms dangling off them – that sucked , but it was the best she could do .
If she had to run through the streets in her socks , she would run through the streets in her socks .
“Tell me something , ” Neil said as he shrugged off his jacket .
“Are you still a virgin ? ” His eyes squinted , his voice trembling and cracking .
Jessie knew from experience when something was about to happen .
She was a step ahead of everybody .
She tried to speak but it came out as a garbled sound in her throat .
“What ? ” Neil said .
“You don’t have an answer ? ” He slammed his jacket on the floor .
“You little slut , are you trying to make a laughingstock out of me ? ” “Neil ! ” Gail said .
“What’s the matter with you ? ” Jessie sprang up and bolted for the kitchen door .
“See ? ” Neil shouted .
“She’s dirty !
She’s dirty ! ” His heavy footsteps pursued her , shoes thumping , making the small house shake , but Jessie had the jump on him .
She darted left , then left again , her feet slipping on the wooden floors .
She reached the door to the back porch , yanked it hard , but it wouldn’t open .
The deadbolt !
You had to use a key to unlock the door from either side .
The key was in the kitchen cabinet .
She could hear his breathing – she turned , and there he was , coming fast , five feet away .
She would never get the back door open in time .
She dashed down the narrow hallway , toward the front door , and the stairs to the two upstairs bedrooms .
His shadow was on top of hers .
The front door was no good – it would also be locked , impossible to open .
Jessie realized that she was laughing .
Crazy giggles escaped her .
She stopped at the bottom of the stairs , hooked the banister with her hand , then went right , turning on a dime , 180 degrees .
Somewhere , her mother screamed .
Neil reached for Jessie’s wrist , brushed it with his fingers , but she slipped away from his grip .
She bounded up the stairs , two at a time .
Neil lost a couple of seconds here .
He was too drunk to stop and ran right past the staircase .
Jessie breathed hard now , gasped for air , as she emerged in the darkness of the upstairs hallway .
Another 180 around the banister , and her room was down the hall on the left .
Her thoughts raced , her mind making decisions seconds ahead .
It just sounded like a bunch of noise and screaming .
The four of them made small talk as they made their way through the swirling snowflakes that gained intensity with every mile .
They filled each other in on what was happening with their jobs—Frank hadn’t been to work in three days due to the weather , Jason was fed up with his pencil-pushing cog-in-the-machine daily grind , Valerie was happy as could be in her low level administrative position , and Lucy mumbled something about money that no one could understand .
It crossed Jason’s mind that she might be a stripper .
He wouldn’t really be too surprised .
They talked of their personal lives , but nothing too in depth .
That would wait until they were back at Frank’s house , all of them a few beers deep , getting philosophical and nostalgic .
For now they stuck to superficial facts about what mutual friends were up to , the movies they’d seen recently , and the latest Olympics results .
The snowfall was definitely getting heavier as time passed , and the road they were travelling had built up a few inches .
Jason saw the snowdrifts on the sides of the road , indications that a plow had been through here , but obviously they couldn’t keep up with what was falling from the sky .
Frank was forced to slow down to just over 30 miles an hour , even though they were on the highway .
As they passed the sign indicating the junction with State Route 7 , Frank muttered , “Shit.” A few seconds later , Jason saw why .
Flashing red and blue lights reflected off the snow .
It looked like a Christmas scene and would’ve been pretty if not for the connotation of disaster those lights brought to mind .
Frank tried to take the junction exit , then slowly rolled to a stop .
He switched off the stereo .
Three police cars were positioned across the exit , all at different angles , preventing anyone from taking that route .
A policeman with a flashlight , wearing a parka and a heavy wool cap under his standard issue policeman’s hat , walked slowly up to the driver’s side window .
Frank rolled it down , and a gust of freezing air forced its way into the car , overpowering the heater in a few quick seconds .
“Can’t come through here , folks , ” the cop said .
He had to shout over the wind .
“We got a six car accident just up the road a piece and anyone tries to go that way’s gon na make it seven.” Frank just nodded .
Jason could tell he was already planning his alternate route .
Jason felt a twinge of worry in his gut .
They shouldn’t be driving in this weather .
“I’d suggest you folks hole up at the nearest hotel , ” the cop continued .
“This flurries ‘sposed to blow over in a few hours , then it’ll all freeze .
Wait ‘til morning , wait ‘til the plows get another chance to come through and for some tow trucks to pull these cars out the way .
No sense in puttin’ yourselves in the same position as them poor folks up there.” “Any idea where the nearest hotel is ? ” Frank asked .
Jason was more relieved than he’d thought he’d be by that question .
The policeman pointed ahead , back up the main highway .
“Take the next exit on your right .
Not the nicest place to stay , but it’s warm and they got beds .
Have a good night , folks.” He tipped his hat and turned around , heading back to the three police cars serving as the roadblock .
Frank put the Acura in gear and slowly started rolling forward , off the exit junction and back to the highway .
He was cutting across multiple lanes , but there wasn’t any other traffic to mind .
“It might be a crappy hotel , ” Valerie said , “but it might be fun , too .
We can make an adventure of it.” Jason could see she was relieved , too .
“We’re not stopping at any hotel , ” Frank said , and Jason felt his stomach drop again .
“If we do , we’ll be stuck there for days .
I don’t care what that cop said , this is only gon na get worse , and I’m not sitting in a hotel until they clean it up .
I know how to get around that accident on 7 .
It’s not even that long a detour , maybe twenty miles , maybe a little more , and we’ll be right back where we want to be.” “Frank , seriously , I think you should reconsider.” Jason had always been the voice of reason in their relationship , the older brother , the responsible one .
It had never worked in the past , Frank always did what he wanted , and Jason had no doubt he would do what he wanted this time , too .
But it couldn’t hurt to try .
“This is dangerous weather .
We shouldn’t be out here.” “Don’t worry .
I know what I’m doing .
I’ve driven in weather ten times worse than this .
We’ll be fine.” “But even if you do know how to drive in this , ” Valerie piped up , “what if someone else doesn’t ?
If some idiot plows into you , there’s nothing you can do about it.” “Not gon na happen , ” Frank said .
He looked at Lucy in the passenger seat .
“You worried , sugar ? ” “Not a bit , ” Lucy said , grinning .
“I say , hit the gas.” Jason grimaced .
She was a real genius , that one .
Valerie squeezed his hand .
He shrugged .
What could they do ?
He leaned back in the seat and tried to relax .
If he couldn’t change the situation , there was no use in worrying about it the whole time .
If something happened he would worry about it then .
They drove in silence for several miles before Frank took an exit , seemingly at random .
At the bottom of the exit ramp he took a left , and they were in a world of white snow and nothing else .
Jason couldn’t see very far into the flurries and the darkness , but it looked like there was nothing out there at all .
No streetlights , at least .
Frank’s headlights reflected off the falling snow , limiting visibility and forcing him to slow down even more .
Jason leaned forward and peered over his brother’s shoulder ; they were only going about fifteen miles an hour .
So far , so good , though .
Jason had to admit he hadn’t even felt them slide yet .
So maybe Frank was right .
Apparently he did know how to drive in this weather , and even if they were going slow , he was doing a fine job .
And just as Jason was thinking this , of course , Frank hit the brakes .
Not too hard , not enough to send them skidding off the road , but hard enough that Jason could tell something was wrong .
He leaned forward again .
“What’s the matter ? ” “You didn’t see that guy ? ” Frank asked .
“No.” Jason glanced at Valerie but she shook her head .
“No.” “There’s a dude out walking in this .
We just passed him .
We got ta see if he needs a lift.” “What ? ” Jason thought that was a crazy idea .
“Why ? ” Frank rolled his window down .
Snowflakes blew inside on a gust of icy , frozen wind .
Jason shivered immediately .
“Does that answer your question ? ” Frank asked , rolling the window up again .
Actually , it did .
If they opened the paper tomorrow and read about some guy freezing to death on the side of whatever road they were currently on , Jason knew he would feel awful .
He would feel responsible .
But he still didn’t like the idea of picking up a random stranger in the middle of the night .
But even as that thought came to him he realized how ridiculous it was .
It was the product of too many movies and television shows .
This was just some guy in need of help .
Frank was peering into the rearview mirror when he said , “There he is .
He’s coming up on your side , Lucy.” Lucy rolled her window down , chilling the inside of the car with another blast of wind , and poked her head out .
“Hey , ” she called , “you need some help ? ” The man who appeared in the passenger window wore a puffy parka with the hood up .
Jason could see he had a full beard , not too clean from the look of it .
His cheeks were pockmarked—what could be seen of them , anyway—and his nose was bright red .
His eyes looked dark , mostly hidden by a thick wool cap pulled down over his brows .
“Hi-a ! ” the man said .
His deep voice seemed to resonate off the inside panels of the car .
“Lil’ bit chilly out hee-ah.” He laughed heartily at that .
Jason thought he might be drunk .
Shrugging his shoulders with disappointment , Kurt returned to the campfire and sat down next to his friend .
He stretched over and took the guidebook from his tent .
“I can’t believe we can’t find one .
This thing said there were hundreds.” “You should definitely get our money back .
It’s been , like , three hours since we started searching this pond.” “Joint ? ” “Yeah.” Nigel lay back and used a red jacket he wasn’t wearing as a pillow .
He looked up through the canopy of branches and leaves at the sky above .
The blue was darkening and the bright light of day was fading fast .
The air was beginning to take on a chill .
“Do you wan na sleep in the car tonight ?
We can close the doors and smoke the rest of our stash .
There doesn’t seem much point being out here.” “Maybe toads are , like , nocturnal , ” Kurt pondered without looking up from the cigarette he was rolling .
“But how will we see them ?
Or catch them ? ” “All right .
We’ll go back .
Do you want one each ? ” “Sure.” Kurt finished preparing the first joint and then handed it to his friend .
Nigel slipped a lighter from his pocket and then sparked up .
He remained lying down and closed his eyes .
The warmth from the dying fire was pleasant on the right-hand side of his face , and the gentle rustle of leaves high above was soothing .
He felt the drug’s usual sensation of bliss wash over him .
After a while , he heard the click of Kurt’s lighter .
“I can’t believe we drove all this way and can’t find a stupid toad , ” Nigel said , stifling a laugh .
“Do you think it’s the stupidest thing we’ve ever done ? ” Kurt didn’t answer .
“Come on , dude .
Don’t take it personally .
I think it’s funny.” There was still no reply .
Nigel turned his head to his side and opened his eyes .
Kurt had his index finger held vertically across his lips and was staring down towards the water .
The joint in his other hand hung between two fingers .
It had almost extinguished itself .
Following his friend’s eyes , Nigel looked to the motionless pond .
A toad sat twelve inches from the dark water , surrounded by open mud .
Its body was the size of a fist and its warty , brown skin blended well with the damp ground .
In front of two bulbous lumps on the back of its head , the small toad’s eyes flickered around .
Slowly , Kurt turned the pages of his guidebook .
He looked down at a photograph that he had circled .
“That’s the one , ” he whispered and then he stirred from his sitting position .
He pulled his long hair back from out of his eyes , secured his joint between his lips , and took several paces towards the toad .
The little creature made a small jump , turning its body around so that it faced the water .
The toad’s movement caused Kurt to stop , but once it had its back to him , he crept forwards again until he was only three yards away .
He crouched down , held his arms out ahead of him and then dived forwards .
Lying by the fire , Nigel couldn’t see what happened ; Kurt’s prone body obscured his view .
But a noise that sounded like a scream broke the quiet of their surroundings .
Kurt rolled onto his back and sat up .
He had the toad held in his hands .
He smiled happily , although the joint was gone from his mouth .
“I got it , ” he exclaimed .
The toad was still screaming , its small chest puffing up and its legs kicking outside the cup of Kurt’s palms .
“Well done , dude , ” Nigel called back .
Kurt carried the toad back to the campfire and then sat down .
“There’s a pot in my rucksack , go and get it.” Nigel cast the butt of his joint onto the fire and then hurried to Kurt’s tent .
He opened the rucksack and fumbled through the contents .
“So , like , how do we kill it ? ” Kurt didn’t answer until Nigel had returned from his tent brandishing a plastic ice-cream tub .
Several holes had already been punched in the lid .
“I was only messing with you , man .
We’re keeping this little fella.” “Keeping it ? ” “Yeah , we can , like , milk the bufotoxins out once a month.” “Milk it ? ” “Like a cow , except with drugs .
How awesome is this ?
Free drugs forever , man .
I think I’m gon na call him Beatnik.” Beatnik still screamed and struggled , but Kurt held him tight .
“Open up my tobacco pouch and put it on the ground for me.” Nigel did as he was told and then sat back down .
The growing darkness and cold were forgotten as he watched Kurt change the way he held Beatnik .
“What are you doing ? ” Kurt secured Beatnik around his body with one hand .
The toad’s arms and legs flailed and his soft underbelly was exposed .
Kurt positioned him so that the bulbous lumps on the back of his head were above the tobacco pouch and then , with the index finger of his free hand , he started to stroke Beatnik under his chin .
“The bufotoxins are in the venom , and doing this will get it out.” Drips of poison ejected from the glands behind the toad’s head and dripped down onto the tobacco .
“It’s working , ” Nigel said .
Kurt kept going until the fluid stopped leaking out and then he held Beatnik up to his face .
“You’re totally awesome , little dude .
Now , go in your new home.” Nigel watched as Kurt peeled back the lid from the ice-cream tub and placed Beatnik inside .
He pushed the seal back on tightly .
“We’ll need some leaves and insects for him later .
It’ll take a month to replenish his venom.” “What do we do now ? ” Nigel asked .
Kurt isolated the damp tobacco using his finger and then sat back .
“We got ta wait until this stuff is dry before we can smoke it , but , like , it shouldn’t take long .
Fancy another joint ? ” Nigel laughed .
“Oh yeah.” * * * As Nigel lay there , half in and out of his tent , looking up at the starry sky through a gap in the canopy , he found it difficult to accurately judge the effects of the bufotoxins .
Not only had they smoked all of the toad’s venomous output , but they had also finished the rest of Kurt’s more traditional fare .
All Nigel knew for sure was that he was certainly high .
And it felt great .
He didn’t notice the cold .
He didn’t mind the dark or the insects that buzzed around the campfire and crawled along the ground beside him .
He was happy .
“Man this feels good.” “You got that right , ” Kurt replied .
His voice was distant and relaxed .
“What’s wrong , Beatnik .
Eat your grubs.” Inside the ice-cream tub , the toad hopped and bounced about , ignoring the insects Kurt had gathered for him .
There were also leaves , mud and twigs to hide amongst .
Nevertheless , Beatnik appeared increasingly agitated .
“He is one cool toad , ” Nigel said , and then he closed his eyes .
His head felt like it was floating , circling the campfire .
He laughed a little .
“Did you hear that ? ” Nigel opened his eyes .
“Hear what ? ” “By the water.” “Nope , ” Nigel replied with a shake of his head .
The sensation felt funny and he laughed again .
Kurt took a flashlight from his tent and switched it on .
Sitting where he was , he shone the beam across the section of the bank nearest them , scanning from left to right .
There was nothing to be seen , the water was still and the muddy bank was empty .
“You’re hearing things , dude.” Fumbling for the switch to turn off the torch , Kurt caught sight of a disturbance on the water’s surface .
It had started much further out , beyond the light of the torch , and the ripples flowed after one another towards the bank .
“There’s something there , man.” Reluctantly , Nigel sat up and turned around so that he was facing the water .
He watched as Kurt got to his feet and walked down to the pond’s edge , shining the light out across the water .
Josif , a serf , middle-aged and grey , stood at the front of the crowd with his staff in hand .
The leader of the cloaked figures , with a feminine voice , announced to the villagers , “We have come to see Magistrate Lucian .
Could you please take us to him ? ” But she did so in such a hissing voice that the femininity of it was eclipsed by its harsh tone .
There was nervous muttering in the crowd , but someone did go to fetch Lucian , who was seated in an office connected to the church .
The crowd waited in tense silence , looking at the hooded figures with suspicion and fear .
Josif alone was willing to act , and after a few moments of hesitation , he launched an attack upon the lead figure .
With his staff raised and shouting , he aimed to crack his staff upon the hooded figure’s head .
The figure stood in mute silence as he ran towards her , waiting until the last moment to move .
When she raised her hand and parried the staff , Josif stumbled , his staff ultimately striking the ground .
The dark figure pushed him such that he landed a few feet away and rolled onto the dirt .
“We came here to talk ! ” the female figure boomed and the villagers recoiled further .
Josif pulled himself up and dusted himself off , smarting more from the embarrassment than from any wound .
Lucian emerged from the church , wearing a fine jacket , breaches and a trim gray wig , with ponytail hanging behind .
Though he was well into his forties , he had the look and vigor of a man half his age , with a boyish , clean-shaven face and small , blue eyes .
Lucian looked at the five figures standing motionlessly in front of the small crowd that had gathered and addressed the lead figure : “It’s Asha , isn’t it ? ” She nodded and he said , “Let’s get you inside then .
Right this way.” As the five figures approached he shouted at the crowd , “Make way .
They are here at my invitation.” Andrei stepped out of his shop to see the five cloaked vampires walking towards the crowd , which parted as they approached .
Andrei’s wiry figure was dressed in a modest robe that covered over the shirt and loose breaches he wore underneath .
His thin gray hair was cropped close against his skull and he bore a trim mustache and beard on his face .
He had the look of modest , even stingy affluence , but also of relaxed comfort and ease .
Andrei watched the five vampires walking into the church with Lucian leading the way .
He pondered the situation for a moment , before he decided to close up shop and see if could horn in on whatever meeting Lucian was engaged in with those vampires .
Andrei always disliked closing his shop during business hours and it was with some discomfort that he locked the front door , pushing it shut while the sign “Apothecary and Vampire Wares” swung back and forth .
He told Cornel that he would be back in some fifteen or so minutes if anyone came by .
Then he walked over to the church .
Andrei entered the great double doors at the front of the church , which opened into the narthex .
He could see the nave , which was now empty , through the next set of doors .
It was a large room with iconography—of Jesus and Mary and many saints—covering the walls and an altar and candles in the front .
There were a few private offices to the side of the narthex , and Andrei passed through a door leading to a side hall , whereat he knocked on the first of these doors .
The door opened and the round , red-cheeked face of Beniamin , Lucian’s secretary , peaked through .
He wore a brown , ostentatiously curly wig and always bore a pleasant smile .
“Yes ? ” he asked inquisitively .
“I have come to ask of Magistrate Lucian , if I could kindly insist , that I be permitted to enter .
I think I have a right to listen in on whatever discussions you’re engaged in with these vampires , as a citizen of this village and an interested party.” Beniamin opened the door a bit more and turned to reveal Lucian seated in the dark looking at Andrei .
Lucian spoke up in his well-measured tone : “This is only a preliminary meeting , Andrei .
We will be sure and apprise you of the content of our conference once we have finished .
Be assured that you will be the first person to whom I will speak.” “We have nothing to hide , ” Asha shouted out in her snake-like voice , “Bring in whomever you wish .
We’re not going to get infected ? ” Both Lucian and Asha nodded , but Andrei , still shrank into a corner as far as possible away from the vampires .
Lucian occupied a spacious office , containing an elegant wood desk , upon which Lucian would do his writing , and an entire bookshelf of finely bound books .
In one corner a globe served as decoration , along with some oil paintings framed on the walls .
But the whole costly interior was plunged into near blackness as soon as Beniamin closed the doors .
A single candle sat on Lucian’s desk and only the faintest traces of light leaked underneath the door .
There was a window , but the curtains were closed , such that only an outline of light also leaked in around the edges .
Only in this darkness could the five vampires expose their skin .
They pulled back their hoods , revealing their heads , which were entirely wrapped in a thin piece of black cloth .
After removing the cloth , five stunning , pale faces were revealed , two females and three males .
All of the faces were young looking , flawless , sharp and colorless .
They weren’t beautiful in the way that Andrei normally thought .
The females in particular lacked the round , pink skin and soft feature that Andrei associated with his ideal of womanly beauty .
Still , the females were , both of them , gorgeous—like a whiter , more angular version of a youthful belle in full bloom .
The males as well , though carved out of the same mold as a Greek god , were leaner , more muscular and more severe than those deific ideals .
When Andrei saw them expose their faces , he recoiled instinctively and rose to leave the room .
Asha understood what Andrei was afraid of and said vehemently , “There is no risk of infection .
If you want to listen , you’ll sit down.” Andrei felt naked without the bird-shaped mask to protect him and swallowed uncomfortably , believing he was picking up the faint whiff of Asha’s aroma as he put his hand around his nose .
Lucian turned to Asha and continued , “We have come to discuss a truce between the vampires of our coven and the surrounding villages , ” rehashing what had been said for Andrei’s sake .
Most of our attacks are motivated by self-defense .
If you ended any and all attacks on us , I don’t see any reason why we should continue hostilities , ” Magistrate Lucian said , speaking judiciously .
“Except your ‘vampire wares , ’” Asha added , “Which ought to be destroyed and the whole shop where they’re sold to be burnt to the ground.” “Keep trying , ” Andrei said , “You haven’t failed enough times ?
“Andrei you were told to be quiet during these proceedings .
I don’t want to hear any more from you , ” Lucian said .
Turning back to Asha , who had returned to her seat , he said , “I’m sorry .
Let’s continue .
Can I first ask , are all of the vampires in your group behind you ? ” “The coven obeys me , ” Asha said , “They disobey at their peril.” “But what if one of them were to disobey ?
Then what ? ” Lucian asked , “What if one of them were to break this truce ? ” “I would punish him severely , ” Asha said with relish .
“I don’t know if that’s enough for us , ” Lucian said cautiously , “We’d have more confidence if the offender were handed over to us , so we can be sure that punishment is being meted out ?
Is that acceptable ? ” “Would you extend the same courtesy to us ? ” Asha asked , “Would you give us all your condemned criminals ?
Not just those who violate this truce , but all condemned to die ? ” “That seems fair .
I can discuss it with the other villages , ” Lucian nodded , “And might I ask upon what food you vampires will subsist absent humans ? ” “We will raise livestock , ” Asha said .
Andrei nodded , looking at his two human companions .
Directing his question to all present in the room , he asked , “Any other provisions you want to suggest ? ” “We just want a truce .
All other provisions are inessential .
I suggest you gather the surrounding villages and see if they’ll buy into it before we waste any more time , ” Asha said .
“I think they will , ” Lucian said , smiling , “But I’ll get right on it .
I think this will be something that will be mutually beneficial and very long-lasting.” Lucian stood up and extended a hand to shake with Asha .
She looked at it and didn’t move , saying , “I don’t think we should touch .
After the vampires had left , Lucian opened up the curtains , flooding the room with light .
He turned to look at Andrei and said with a small laugh , “You ought to be careful about Asha .
She normally wouldn’t hesitate to kill you .
Any different circumstances and you’d be dead .
For a second there , I wasn’t sure if she could restrain herself.” There was a knock on the door , and it was Beniamin , whom Andrei admitted into the room .
“What do you think of this truce ? ” Lucian asked .
“I don’t like it , ” Andrei admitted .
“Of course you don’t , ” Beniamin merrily chuckled , “Just as the bees wouldn’t like it if you took away their flowers.” “I admit it might be good for the village .
If the vampires don’t break the truce , that is .
But I don’t trust them , ” Andrei said , settling back into his chair and rubbing his beard with one hand , “There’s no reason for this truce .
It comes out of nowhere .
Why this ?
Why now ?
I think we need to know what’s going on with them before we agree to a truce.” “You don’t trust them because we’ve always been at war .
They’ve never had a chance to prove their trustworthiness .
If we give them a chance , I think they will show their true worth , and they will show that they are human .
They are as much human as we are .
And they can cooperate , especially for something that will benefit them and us alike .
They’re doing this because they , like us , are tired of fighting , tired of all the death .
They want a new life , ” Lucian pontificated , in his usual politician’s voice .
“They depend on us for food , ” Andrei disagreed , “They are not going to give us up.” “They will live on other meat and other blood .
Michelle and I sat on the couch and each had a plate of mixed beans for dinner , while the Husky ( which I dubbed Fluffy because of his fur ) ate his own plate of beans in front of the fireplace .
We looked like the perfect little family having a cosy meal during a blackout .
If only… “What do we do now ? ” Michelle asked .
“We stay here tonight.” I said , “And tomorrow we start looking for survivors – and my mother.” Michelle nodded and ate another spoonful of beans .
I hated mixed beans .
I hated the taste , texture and smell , but it was at least food .
We both might have gas later during the night , but who cares during apocalyptic times about gas ?
“How far do you think it has spread ? ” Michelle asked .
She clearly wanted to bring up her mother and speculation of whether she was still alive .
“I don’t know.” I said , “It could only be our town , or it could have spread further.” “I wish I had my phone so I can call her.” Michelle said , “I left it in my locker back at school.” Okay , there was no way we were heading back there and besides , I think the school might have burned down .
“Your mother will be fine.” I said , trying to convince both of us .
Michelle picked at her food as if it was a bowl of intestines .
The mood in the room was heavy and morbid and I had to change it .
“So…” I started nervously , “Prom is just around the corner…” Michelle snorted , but tried not to laugh .
“I was wondering , ” I said foolishly , “When all of this blows over , if you would go to the prom with me ? ” Michelle was still picking at her food , but she was trying to hide a blush with a smile .
“Of course I will go with you.” Michelle said .
It’s difficult to explain the weird feeling I got inside when she said that .
It was a combination of excitement , nervousness and warmth that exploded from my heart throughout my body .
I had to play it cool .
She might not like me if I acted like an excited little child .
I smiled at her and said , “Cool.” I took one last spoonful of the awful mixed beans and decided enough was enough .
I placed the plate on the floor and Fluffy ate the rest of the beans .
Michelle ate the last of her beans and placed her plate on the table which stood next to the couch .
She glanced at me and smiled nervously .
It was the first time we were alone together and were not fighting to stay alive .
She clasped her hands together and rested them on her lap , seeming a bit nervous .
“Did you just ask me to the prom because I am the only girl left alive ? ” Michelle asked .
I laughed and said with a stutter , “No… I… We… what I mean is… I like you.” Michelle smiled and tried to hide that she was self-conscious about compliments and then pushed some hair back behind her ear .
“I like you too.” Michelle said , “I have a confession to make .
I have noticed you in the school corridors before , but I never wanted to… I never could talk to you .
I was afraid that if you knew that I liked you that you would reject me.” “What ? ” I asked shocked , “Why would I reject you ?
If anything , I would think you would reject me.” Michelle smiled and said , “I’m not like the other girls in school .
Yes , I portray this image of being perfect , but I really am not .
I do not open up easily to others , but I feel safe and comfortable with you .
I feel like I could tell you anything without being judged.” Michele inched closer to me and laid her one hand on the edge of the cushion .
“I feel like I’ve known you forever.” Michelle said , “I am just sorry it took me so long to build up the courage to finally talk to you.” Michelle inched closer and I could feel my heart racing and my mouth got dry .
She was so close to me .
I could lean in and kiss her .
I could kiss her like the heroes did in the movies .
Perhaps I was overthinking it ?
I should stop thinking and just act .
My mind was racing through all sorts of thoughts when I saw Michelle leaning in for a kiss .
This was it… I closed my eyes and leaned in closer to kiss her .
Her tongue was warm and soft just like I imagined , but she was a horrible kisser .
Her tongue was all over my lips , which was kind of disgusting .
I heard laughing and opened my eyes to find myself staring into icy blue Husky eyes while Fluffy licked my mouth .
I jerked back and wiped my mouth with the back of my hand while Michelle laughed hysterically .
“Bad dog ! ” I said laughing .
3 We slept on the couch that evening while Fluffy slept on the rug in front of the dying fire .
I can not remember when last I slept as deep as I did that night .
It was obviously all the excitement of killing zombies that completely drained me of energy .
I remember thinking about my friend , Jim and my mother – wondering whether they survived the apocalypse .
I wondered whether it would at all be possible to find them in this world of the undead .
More troubling thoughts popped into my head and then I drifted off to sleep .
It was a deep and dreamless sleep brought on by exhaustion .
Somewhere in the early morning hours , a thud that echoed through the house woke me up .
My eyes were still burning from fatigue while I tried to see around me .
Fluffy sat upright next to me staring at the hallway while Michelle slept .
It had to be around six AM , as I could see the sun rising behind the drawn curtains .
“What is it boy ? ” I asked Fluffy , “Did you hear that ? ” I got up from the couch and grabbed the axe which stood up right next to the fireplace .
I held up the axe with my right hand and cautiously walked towards the hallway while Fluffy followed me in silence .
I was not sure what use this dog was to me , because my idea of a dog was a creature that would run off and defend humans against odd noises .
Fluffy was like a little cuddly teddy bear that followed you around waiting for a snack or a hug .
He did not seem very useful during a zombie apocalypse .
As I entered the hallway , I treaded lightly hoping that the floorboards would keep quiet .
I heard scuffling coming from the kitchen and immediately knew that someone – living or dead – had somehow gotten inside the house .
I raised the axe as I got to the kitchen doorway and was ready to bring it crashing down on the intruder as I came around the corner .
In the darkness I saw someone scurrying through the pantry with his back to me .
A floorboard creaked beneath me and the person looked back over his shoulder .
When he saw the axe , he spun around and gestured with his hands .
“Zac ! ” The man said , “It’s me , Alex ! ” I lowered the axe and Alex relaxed a bit .
He took a deep breath and put down the cans of food in his hands .
Alex was covered in dirt and his shirt was torn across the chest .
His facial expression was perplexing , he seemed sad and yet happy to see me .
“Am I glad to see you.” Alex exclaimed .
I , on the other hand was still uncertain whether I was glad to see my bully alive or not .
Yes , I know that he was a bit more humble in the changing rooms the day before , but I can not simply dismiss years of torture .
One good deed does not undo years of bad deeds .
“Alex.” I said baffled , “What are you doing here ? ” “I’m looking for a safe place to ride this thing out.” Alex said .
“How did you get in ? ” I asked worried .
“I broke the lock on the front door.” Alex said , “I didn’t know anybody was here .
Don’t worry , I barricaded the door again.” I kept staring at him flabbergasted and then he broke the silence .
“You don’t mind me staying , do you ? ” He asked .
“No , of course not.” I replied .
Come on .
What was I supposed to say to him ?
I could not tell him to hit the road .
We might be the only ones left alive in town .
I would feel like a real jerk if I let the only other man left alive go out on his own and he ended up being eaten alive .
“Great.” Alex said as he turned to leave , “I’m gon na wash up .
I am covered in dirt.” “How—“ I said , making him halt , “How did you get out alive ? ” “I don’t know.” Alex said , “Honestly , it happened so fast .
I just remember walking down the aisle towards the main entrance of the school building and then the next moment people around me started screaming and eating each other and then I just ran .
I pushed everyone out of my way and just ran .
I’ve been running around this town ever since it happened , hoping to find my family.” “Did you find them ? ” I asked .
“Yes.” Alex said , “I found them at home .
My mother was in the kitchen…” Alex drifted off as he spoke , “…her face was gone .
My sister was in the living room – eating my father’s severed leg.” There was a moment of silence as Alex tried to forget the macabre things he saw in his house .
“I’m sorry.” I said sincerely .
Alex snapped out of his dazed state , but did not smile to hide his pain .
He simply nodded and walked off to the bathroom .
Excuse me.” As I tried to step around him , his hand snaked out and grabbed my wrist .
“Not so fast.” I inhaled sharply and instinct took over .
I rotated my wrist , snatched my arm away from him , and then quickly hit him in the jaw with an uppercut .
It was like hitting a plate of steel .
“Ahhh ! ” I gasped in pain .
“Nice attempt , ” he smiled darkly .
“I do applaud your efforts .
It amuses me.” He then smacked me back , hitting me in the chin .
I fell backwards , landing on the ground .
In pain , but now more furious than anything , I jumped up and swung my leg up to kick him in the chest .
He caught my foot and dug his nails into my ankle cruelly .
“You are a fighter , aren’t you ? ” he said , grabbing my neck with one of his large , cold hands , holding me in place .
“I like that.” “No , I’m really not , ” I whispered hoarsely as I tried to pull his fingers away from my neck .
“Please , you’re hurting me .
Let me go and I’ll do whatever you want.” Sighing , he released my neck .
“You should have thought of that before you crossed me.” Crossed him ?
I opened my mouth to scream , but he clamped his hand over it with incredible speed .
“Uh , uh , uh…” he whispered .
Terrified , I reached between his legs and squeezed as hard as I could .
He roared in pain and released me .
I turned away and began running towards my apartment building , frightened .
“Hey ! ” hollered a man’s voice from an apartment window above .
“You okay down there , miss ?
You need help ? ” Before I could answer , someone grabbed me from behind and I was whisked away into the darkness .
Chapter Two I slept and my dreams were morbidly disturbing .
I was trapped in some kind of old pine coffin , trying desperately to escape .
As I pounded and clawed at the wooden box , I could hear someone digging .
Without a doubt , I knew it was a grave .
My grave .
Each stab at the earth was followed by the sound of dirt being tossed , chilling me to the bone .
When the noise of the shovel stopped , I cried out for help , hoping that it was some kind of mistake “Please ! ” I screamed again , pounding my fists and kicking my feet against the coffin .
“Let me out !
I’m alive in here ! ” Silence .
“Dammit , I’m not dead !
This is a mistake !
Someone help me ! ” No response .
I sobbed .
“I don’t deserve this .
Please… let me out of here.” “Uh , uh , uh…” replied a man , chuckling .
“Should have thought of that before you crossed me.” My eyes snapped open and I sat up .
“Oh , my God , ” I whispered in horror as my eyes adjusted to surroundings that I did not recognize .
I was in a dimly lit barn , lying on an old wool blanket , and there were three others with me .
“Welcome to your nightmare , ” muttered one of the women , who was sitting a few feet away .
She looked to be around my mother’s age , had short dark hair , and a painful-looking shiner under her right eye .
“What’s going on ? ” I asked , getting to my feet .
I brushed away some straw from my knees and straightened up .
“Where am I ? ” The woman with the bruise smiled grimly .
“You’re in the Land of Oz .
Don’t you remember riding the tornado here ? ” I stared at her in confusion .
“I…” Then it all came back to me .
The stranger .
Our fight .
Running and then being grabbed from behind .
The weight of the situation hit me like a sledgehammer .
“Oh , God…someone kidnapped me ? ” “Oh yeah , ” said a girl , walking over .
She was not much older than me , with short blond hair and glasses .
“Obviously , you’re not the only one .
I’m Amy , by the way.” “I’m Emily , ” I answered in a hollow voice .
I looked around the barn , which held no animals or livestock .
Just us .
“I don’t understand , who’s doing this and why ? ” I asked .
“Do you remember the guy who took you ? ” asked Amy .
I thought about the man by the pool .
Obviously he was involved .
“Yeah .
I’m sure it was this guy with dark hair and pale skin .
He approached me by my apartment building and we fought.” “He’s one strong son-of-a-bitch , ” muttered a dark-skinned girl who was lying down on another blanket , staring up at the roof of the barn .
“Something’s not right about him.” “That’s Tara , ” said Amy .
“She actually stabbed him with a switchblade.” Tara turned her face to look at me .
“He didn’t even flinch .
Stabbed the bastard in the hand and it was as if nothing happened .
It was some freaky shit.” “Uh , did he kidnap all of you ? ” I asked , not recalling the guy having any kind of wound on his hand when he assaulted me .
“No , ” replied Amy , lowering her voice .
“There are more of them.” She looked towards the roof of the barn .
“They’re probably watching us right now.” I felt like I was in some kind of twisted horror movie , only this was real .
I stared up at the dark shadows of the barn and shivered .
“Why are they doing this ? ” “I don’t know , ” said Amy .
“We were all brought in here within the last twenty-four hours.” “Have you tried to escape ? ” I said , lowering my voice as I eyed the barn door .
Tara snorted .
“Hell no , genius .
That didn’t cross any of our minds.” “Be nice , ” said the woman with the bruise .
“She’s just as confused as the rest of us and doesn’t deserve any more abuse.” Tara closed her eyes and sighed .
“Yeah , I know .
Sorry .
I’m just not in the mood for this shit anymore.” “We’ve tried getting out of here , ” said Amy .
“But they’ve locked us in from the outside .
And…” her lips began to tremble .
“Another woman tried climbing up to the loft right after I arrived .
But , something killed her up there.” “What ? ” I asked , horrified .
I looked up towards the loft , which seemed so dark and menacing .
“There’s something up there , ” she whispered in an ominous voice , stepping closer to me .
“Gloria , the gal who climbed the ladder , she screamed bloody murder when she reached the top .
Tried climbing back down , but something pulled her back and dragged her away from the edge .
We couldn’t see exactly what was happening.” She grimaced .
“But , we all heard it.” I swallowed .
“Something ? ” She nodded .
“We heard it growling and then it sounded like Gloria was wrestling with it.” Her eyes filled with tears .
“I’ll never forget the sounds coming from up there – her cries and something that sounded like hissing .
I was so scared , I almost peed my pants.” “We were all scared , ” said the older woman , shaking her head .
“What happened next ? ” I asked .
I ran and got a blanket from my trunk and tried to comfort her , you know , just calm her down .
I asked her how she got that blood all over her , again she didn’t respond .
Finally she settled down and she seemed almost catatonic like , just staring off into space .
I tried again asking her about the blood and where she had been .
No response .
I then called for backup and when they showed up me and Officer Meyer went searching .
Interviewer : And that’s when you came upon the garage ?
Red is silent for a moment .
He looks down at the table .
Sheriff Brown : A good man Officer Meyer was , young man of twenty five I believe , had a couple of kids , a wife .
I suppose what he saw that day was more than what he could handle .
I guess he wasn’t prepared for something like that ; then again none of us were I suppose .
Let me tell you something Jerry , I started out as a young deputy just like Officer Meyer and I’ve seen a lot of things in my time , but this- He holds his head down into the palms of his hands and begins to sob .
Sheriff Brown : Anything that would make a young man with a family take his own life has to be the work of the devil .
Dammit !
Red slams his fists down hard onto the table .
Interviewer : I know this is difficult Red , but I need to ask .
What did you see in the garage ?
And more importantly , what did Angel Larson tell you about the garage ?
He is still sobbing quietly to himself .
Sheriff Brown : When Ms. Larson finally calmed down , she began to explain what happened .
She was crying half the time and it took a while to finally get through it .
After hearing her story she asked me if I believed her .
I don’t know what scared me more Jerry , her statement of what happened or that sincerity in her voice when she spoke .
It was one of the most honest sounding voices I’ve ever heard .
I will tell you one thing , the devil is here on this earth as we speak and its name is Angel Larson , this I do believe .
And that’s all I have to say about that .
The footage now shows a courtroom .
Angel is sitting at a large brown table with her lawyer .
The room is bustling with noisy chatter until the judge takes command by giving his gavel four hard whacks on a round wooden coaster .
This quiets the room quickly .
Angel has her head down , her long black hair looks stringy and unkept .
A sad and pitiful frown shows on her face implying grief more than guilt .
The prosecuting lawyer states his case .
“Ladies and gentleman of the jury don’t let Ms. Larson’s tears and frowns fool you .
What you see in front of you is beyond evil.” Angel begins crying .
“I assure you that Ms. Larson’s cries are only out of the fearful realization of her sick actions and the knowing of her impending doom.” The footage switches to the judge asking the jury “Have we reached a verdict ? ” A man with a thick southern Indiana drawl speaks to the judge .
“Yes we have your honor .
We the jury find Angelina Christine Larson guilty on three counts of murder.” The courtroom erupts with a quick and loud cheer which the judge soon brings to order .
Angel collapses on the table with her hands over her mouth trying to control her grief of which she is unsuccessful .
The judge speaks- “Sentencing will be set for next Friday on the 15th.” The black and white footage continues when it shows Angels defense lawyer standing in front of a podium in front of the courthouse .
A large crowd gathers in anticipation of the sentencing .
Her lawyer begins to speak into the microphone on the podium .
“I believe we’re ready to begin .
If I can have everyone’s attention please , thank you.” The crowd settles to an eerie silence .
“After a very sleepless week I am here this morning and very pleased to tell you that the devil shall walk no more in Bludenhale.” A happy roar comes from the crowd .
A man standing in the back yells out “Burn that bitch” Ms. Larson has been sentenced to life at the Indiana State Mental Hospital effective today.” Instant rage and disbelief erupts from the crowd .
“WHAT ! ” “You call this justice ! ” “She should FUCKING FRY ! ” “Are you insane ? ?
She’s a goddam murderer ! ” “This is disgusting and is insulting to those three kids that died ! ” The yelling and spitting crowd begins to throw things at the lawyer behind the podium as well as push their way forward .
The scene is that of mayhem and rage at the despicable sentencing of Angel .
The camera becomes shaky and loses connection .
Bob Roberts returns to the screen .
He is standing outside of the Indiana State Mental Hospital where Angel Larson has spent the last twenty years .
“Now , twenty years later , we’re seeing a similar outrage just outside the Indiana State Mental Facility where we have sent a camera crew to capture the people of Bludenhale protesting their two decade old hostility towards Angel Larson .
A crowd of fifty people or more are standing outside of the Indiana State Mental Hospital holding signs that read Angel Larson go to hell and the like .
A news reporter holding a microphone gets some insight from the crowd .
“Sir would you like to say something” .
A man holding a sign says , “Angel Larson is a sick and demented woman that deserves to die for what she did .
The judicial system failed the people of Bludenhale .
She should have been burned a long time ago.” A variety of verbal hatred spews from the crowd .
“Heather was sleeping with Angel’s boyfriend Ron at the time , that’s why she murdered her.” “Angel hated her boyfriend’s car .
She thought he gave more attention to his chevelle than her so she slaughtered him for it .
What kind of fucked up shit is that.” “She’s also a druggie and a whore” “I heard she slept with three men in one night .
The cunt probably had sex with her lawyer just to keep from going to jail” “Angel was jealous of Heather and she killed her for it , plain and simple.” A stoned out punk in the crowd has something to say as well .
“You have to admit man that Angel Larson is pretty fucking hot.” The crowd begins to spit and hit the stoner .
He barely makes it out of the angry mob .
His voice trails off , “And that was a badass shirt she was wearing to , even with the blood on it.” We see Bob return to the screen .
He is standing in front of the garage .
“As you can see there is a lot of hostility amongst that crowd and rightfully so .
We would like to take you now to an exclusive interview with Heather Smith’s parents , Susan and Mark Smith .
They were kind enough to sit down with us to speak about their daughter and how the tragedy from twenty years ago has affected their family .
Reporter Bob Roberts is sitting across from Susan Smith in the living room of the Smith’s farmhouse .
A picture of Heather is sitting on the mantel of the fireplace .
Her smile seems to brighten the room .
Susan is holding a green plastic cup filled with long island iced tea .
Her partly grey but still mostly blonde hair is pulled back in a ponytail .
She’s nearing sixty but still looks as beautiful as ever , despite the stresses of the last twenty years .
Her husband Mark is sitting next to her but seems to be very nervous about being on camera .
Bob motions to the cameraman for the cue to begin and then nervously looks at Susan .
She gives him a look as to say ‘honey , there ain’t nothin’ you can ask me that I haven’t already grieved over and cried myself to sleep about the past twenty years so let’s get this over with’ .
Bob Roberts : I would like to thank you both for granting us this interview .
I understand that is was a difficult decision to do this .
Mrs. Smith , is it true that your daughter Heather and Angel were best friends ?
Susan : Yes that’s true ; hard to believe I know , but they were .
Bob : What was their relationship like ?
Did you ever notice anything strange or odd ?
Susan shifted nervously for a moment in her chair but her eyes never left the reporter .
The ice cubes in her cup clicked together .
Susan : They were inseparable since they were five years old .
They use to ride their bikes around in circles for hours in our driveway .
When they got older it was the same .
Angelica was always at our house ; never missed a Sunday dinner with us .
And she was like an aunt to Heather’s daughter .
So to answer your question , no I never noticed anything wrong with their friendship , just two girls that were really more like sisters than anything .
And if there ever was something wrong with Angelica she sure did a damn good job of hiding it .
Girl couldn’t hurt a fly , Susan thought to herself .
Bob : I see you have many pictures of your daughter on your fire place mantel .
She was very pretty .
Susan gave a smile that was both proud and heartbroken at the same time .
Susan : Yes she was .
“Father ... ” she started .
The man held up one weathered hand to silence her .
“As I have said , there is no need to fear me .
I offer nothing but assistance.” Suddenly he bent double and was racked by a fit of foul coughing , as though his lungs were rotting to pieces .
“Can I at least count on the kindness that one offers an old man weary from his journey ? ” he asked painfully .
“Of course , ” Zachery said .
Despite his appearance , he could not help but feel pity for the man .
Danniella did not share her father’s feelings .
She did not trust the man in the least .
“Father , we shouldn’t invite strangers into our home.” “Danniella , we may be poor but we still have our sense of courtesy , ” Zachery chided his daughter .
He turned to the man .
“Please follow us.” Again Danniella swore the man smiled .
“Your kindness to me will not be forgotten , ” he said .
The man sat at their old table , his face still obscured by his thick hood .
Danniella poured him a cup of weak tea as her father talked .
“Who are you , stranger , and why have you come here ? ” Zachery asked .
“As I have explained , I have come to seek the owner of this farm and offer him an exchange , ” the man answered .
“Then surely you seek Lord Guyye , the owner of all the land in these parts ... ” The man snorted loudly .
“If I wanted to deal with some self-titled lord I would have become a pig farmer myself , ” he snapped and spat unceremoniously on the floor .
Danniella held her tongue .
“You and I both know , ” he continued , “that the true owner of the land is the one who works it .
The man who puts his sweat and blood into the earth and cultivates life from the otherwise worthless dirt .
The ground respects men like you , not some fat , would-be nobleman living of the hard work of others .
No , I came to see you , for I know you would be someone who would understand and respect what I have to offer.” “And what would that be ? ” asked Zachery .
The man reached into his cloak and pulled out a closed fist .
He held his hand out and let the contents fall onto the table into a small , ominous pile for all to see .
They were seeds .
Large , black corn kernels , seemingly dead and worthless to the naked eye .
“Seeds ? ” Danniella almost laughed .
“I’m sorry , stranger , ” Zachery said with a sombre face .
“But you’ve been misinformed .
I have all the seeds I need to plant a crop.” “I know , ” the man said menacingly .
“But have you managed to grow them yet ?
Has anything grown in this god forsaken hole in the past month ? ” “Of course it has ! ” Danniella spoke in her father’s defence .
“The ground we’re standing on is the richest in the land ! ” “Oh , do not delude yourself , girl , ” the man snapped .
He looked back to Zachery .
“Nothing grows !
Only insects and vermin will grow in your fields !
And now the lord wishes to marry off your only daughter and to take the land from you , and there is nothing you can do about it.” “What are you talking about ? ” demanded Danniella .
“Danniella , go outside and tend to the pigs , ” Zachery said suddenly .
His daughter looked up in surprise .
“But , Father ... ” “Go !
Now ! ” With a wounded expression , Danniella left in silence .
Zachery glared at the man .
“Who are you really ? ” “Who I am , ” the man said , “is of no importance.” “How do you know so much ? ” asked Zachery .
“Oh , come now , farmer !
I know many things , and I am ignorant of many things .
But none of this is of any relevance , ” he leaned across the table .
Beneath the hood , Zachery could just discern the shape of the man’s face , hollow and gaunt .
“What I give to you , farmer , ” the man said , “is salvation.” He rose from the table .
“Follow me , ” he said .
“I will show you.” With Zachery in tow , he walked to the middle of the nearest field .
“The earth is fertile here , yes ? ” “Why shouldn’t it be ? ” asked Zachery .
“Why indeed , ” the man said .
He again reached into his cloak , and this time pulled out a flower .
A red rose that seemed no worse for wear despite being kept in the man’s clothes .
Zachery watched as the man allowed the flower to fall from his grasp and onto the ground .
Before his eyes the rose began to shrivel and die .
The moisture evaporated from its petals until it was nothing but a dry husk .
The man chuckled to himself as Zachery gasped in horror .
“What manner of devilry is this ? ” he demanded .
“The blackest kind , ” the man replied .
“It would seem that someone has placed a curse on your land .
A powerful one.” “I don’t believe in curses , ” said Zachery .
“That matters not , ” the man snapped .
“The powers of darkness clearly believe in you.” “But why ?
Why would someone want to curse my land ? ” “I do not know , and I do not care , ” the man said dismissively .
“Even if you did , it would make no difference .
Curses such as this are hard to break , and do not expire for some time .
I can , however , offer an easy solution.” Again he took out the black seeds .
“This crop that I offer you goes by many names .
The one that I prefer is Loyalty.” He handed the seeds to Zachery , who took them with a disgusted look .
Zachery stared at them .
To him they felt ... wrong somehow .
They were not the same as his normal corn .
“This crop will grow anywhere , ” explained the man .
“But it will thrive in a land such as this .
The plant will grow , wherever you want and as quick as you want .
No one other than you and possibly those you allow can care for it .
But as long as you take care of it , the plant will take care of you ... ” “And what do you want in exchange ? ” The man looked offended .
“Nothing serious , ” he said .
“The crop will grow tall and strong in this earth .
And when the time comes , there will be more than enough to pay off your precious lord .
All I ask for is for a small percentage of the final harvest when the time comes.” Zachery hesitated .
Then slowly he asked , “And how much will you give me ? ” The man smiled .
“As much as you need.” They went back to his wagon , where Zachery found his daughter timidly trying to pet the man’s ugly , black horse .
“Please do not touch him ! ” the man called out , surprising her .
“I am afraid my horse does not like little girls ... not like that anyway.” Danniella backed away as the man approached .
“What did he do ? ” she asked her father .
“Nothing , don’t worry , ” Zachery replied .
“Of course not , ” the man called out as he pulled five large sacks from the top of his wagon and dumped them onto the ground .
“For your father has only assured your freedom from marriage into the loud and boorish aristocracy.” As Zachery went to examine the sacks of seeds , the man went to his horse and pulled another treat from his cloak .
Danniella had only a quick glimpse , but she managed to make out the small , furry body of a field mouse before it disappeared into the mouth of the foul horse .
She shuddered as the horse began chewing .
“How do I know that these seeds are real ? ” Zachery asked .
The man climbed onto his wagon and took the reins .
“You do not , ” he answered .
“But , you lose nothing in that case .
And I will never come here again .
However , I can guarantee you that it will grow.” “How will I find you once we have harvested ? ” “You will not .
He drew in a deep breath and continued his prepared sermon .
“Every day of your life you are bombarded , even harangued and sometimes even outright harassed by messages .
From everywhere !
From your teachers , from your friends , from the radio , from the T.V. , from your parents and sometimes even… , '' he paused for dramatic effect , “your own mind ! ” He leaned back from his hawkish , interrogatory stance , raised his eyes and stared down his nose at the class .
“These messages go right into your brain , right into your mind with nothing to stop them .
It’s as if you were merely a sponge and all the messages around you , from music to advertising to social indoctrination just gets sucked up into your gray matter. ]
But what if you could slow this process down ?
Instead of just soaking it all up passively , and allowing these messages to program you and dictate your behavior and your thoughts ?
This is where critical thinking comes in .
This is why the ability to think critically makes you dangerous.” The crowd of students suddenly began to shift .
Some students sat up a little higher and leaned in , more associated with the class than they had been after he had called the roll .
He was proud of himself for that one .
It got some of them .
He could always count on at least a few rebellious types in his class .
He had baited the hook , and now all he had to do was set it .
“So…now I ask you .
Are you ready to become a subversive ?
An intellectual rebel ? ” He scanned the room again .
Out of the forty-two students , about ten or twelve of them were now wide awake and watching him , clearly alert and paying attention to what was being said .
That was about the number he had figured .
He had been teaching this class for six years now , twelve semesters , as an associate professor , and he knew how these classes broke down by now .
About a quarter of the class would get interested in the class and do very well .
These would be the ones who asked intelligent questions and participated in class discussions .
Dr. Gibbons would resist the urge to give extra credit or charity assignments this term just as he had in all his previous ones .
He decided that the bait had been cast .
Time to see who would bite .
“What sort of messages have you taken in just today , can someone give me an answer ? ” “Well , you just gave us one.” said a scrawny , stringy haired girl at the front of the class .
Gibbons smiled .
This one was sucking up early .
And , she gave the response he had gotten first every time he had requested it , the look-how-clever-I-am response .
He turned from the lectern and sat down on the edge of the metal desk that stood at the head of the class , pulling the back of his sport jacket out of the way for his stocky frame to rest on the paneled top .
“That’s true .
I did give you a message .
I told you all that this class was going to be about , and how this class can benefit you not only in your academic career here at RRU , but in your life in general .
But let me ask you another question .
Why didn’t anyone ask me how this class makes you dangerous or a subversive ? ” He looked around the room at the faces , some blank , some frantically searching for what they perceived to be the right answer .
“Because you’re the professor ? ” came the answer from the other side of the room , a muscled , athletic young man .
“Ahh.” said Gibbons .
“I’m an authority figure , so questioning me would have been bad somehow ?
What if I told you that I didn’t really have a PhD in philosophy , but actually had a degree in…let’s say , agriculture ?
What then ? ” The scrawny girl spoke up .
“In that case , Dr. Gibbons , you would still be the authority figure in the classroom , but you wouldn’t be an intellectual authority .
You wouldn’t have the credentials and the experience to teach the class.” “Exactly !
You’ll see when we get into logical fallacies later on this semester , that what you’re describing is called an ‘Inappropriate Appeal to Authority.’ I do have my doctorate in Philosophy , rest assured , but if I didn’t , just because I’m a doctor doesn’t necessarily make me an expert on a certain issue .
Can any of you tell me a situation where you might see this very thing fallacy in action in the real world ? ” He waited , but there was no response .
“How about the evening news , or on cable news channels ?
Do the anchors and reporters you see giving you the news seem like trustworthy and responsible experts on the news they are providing for you ?
How about the channels themselves ?
Can you trust them ?
What do you think ? ” From the back of the class came a response from behind the laptop that Gibbons was sure was playing a movie earlier .
A nasal voice , thick with the local , south central Kentucky drawl , rang out and set Gibbon’s teeth on edge .
“No you can’t trust ‘em .
They got ta sell advertisin’ and all , so they’s not gon na say nothin’ that’s gon na piss off they sponsors .
They also got ta try to get as many folks as they can get to watch their channels to get more folks to watch the advertisin’ , so they’s gon na try to come off as appealin’ as they can to as many folks as possible.” Gibbons was stunned .
He closed his jaw , which had dropped slightly , swallowed , and spoke .
“Excellent !
That is an example of exactly what this class is about .
The systems that are out there don’t make it a point to tell you how they operate , precisely because they want you to trust them .
They want to be perceived as accurate and reliable sources of information .
But , like our colleague here pointed out , these institutions are not there to serve the public good !
They are there to make money .
T.V .
Stations , cable news channels , radio stations , any media distributor that sells advertising of any sort is engaged in a for-profit activity , which means that quite a few people are making money off of the venture .
They want you to think that their product is news or information…but in reality the product is actually the advertising .
The programming , no matter what it is , news , music videos , whatever , is what is on to get you to watch the advertising .
So whenever any media source sets itself up as an authority or a source of information , your first thought should be , and hopefully will be by the time you leave this class , is it trustworthy ?
And trust me , by the end of the term you will have the tools necessary to make that determination .
Can anyone else give me an example of the messages you passively received from society today ? ” “How about music ? ” said a rail thin young man wearing a basketball jersey and an oversized baseball cap with the bill jutting out from over his left ear that sat in the precise center of the room .
Gibbons smiled .
The younger the students were , the more media-saturated they were , and if he could get them to understand critical reasoning by getting them to examine their media intake , he would take it .
“What about music ? ” Gibbons asked .
“What sort of music do you listen to ? ” He already knew the answer .
He could tell by the uniform .
“Hip Hop .
But I always hear people trashin’ on my tunes , you know ?
Like they’s somethin’ bad in the music I like.” “Well , you tell me ?
What is the message in the music that you’re getting when you listen to it ? ” “Well , you know , I always , um… I think it’s tellin me to enjoy life , you know ?
Like , ‘cause you could die any day , any minute.” “I see .
That’s interesting .
And how does your music suggest you should go about enjoying your life this way ? ” “What d’you mean ? ” “Well , I’m not a hermit .
I’ve seen some hip hop videos and heard some of the music .
It seems to me like it advocates illicit drug use and marketing , substance abuse generally , promiscuity , violence , greedy commercialism , with a subtle command to conform and engage in ultimately self-destructive behavior.” “Well , yeah , but sometimes you just have to cut loose and have a good time , you know ?
And what’s wrong with having some cash to throw around , and some nice clothes and the bling ? ” “There’s nothing inherently wrong with it , but you might want to consider how much money you could have eventually if you took the money you’re spending on your indulgences and saved it , and bought something that’s going to make money for you instead of someone else .
Maybe you should buy stock in a company that makes clothing for the Hip Hop subculture ? ” The young man snorted , then looked to his bare desktop .
“The point is , ” Gibbons continued , “that you are always getting messages that you don’t even stop to think about.” He turned from the desk and resumed his stance behind the lectern .
“And , it’s a sad fact of our culture that you can’t escape the messages , even if you are here in the middle of the backwoods and hills of Kentucky .
You are constantly being either marketed to , or coerced , or convinced .
Critical thinking will help shield you from such ignominious intrusions upon your psyche .
You will learn to evaluate the source of the communication you receive .
You will learn how to analyze these messages to see how internally consistent they are , and how much sense they make .
You will learn how to think , speak , and write with clarity , accuracy and precision .
You will learn how to analyze claims and arguments to see if they possess any logical flaws .
Get used to hearing that word , because you will hear it a lot in this class .
Logic is both the sword and shield of the rational mind .
It will be the one trustworthy tool that you will be able to faithfully apply in all instances for countless reasons .
Logic will help you order your mind , so you can then order your world .
Now get out of here and we’ll meet back here this time on Wednesday.” The class stood , almost in synchronization and began to file out the door .
The greasy haired young man at the back of the room who had been watching the laptop was now packing it up and attempting to navigate his way through gaps between the rows of desks .
His clothing was baggy , a plaid flannel shirt and jeans that were clearly old and on their last threads .
Then he’d , grabbed me around the waist and hoisted me up over his shoulder .
I then hiccupped-slash-burped and said , “sorry” to a horrified Jake , who was looking down at his coveted letterman’s jacket , which was now decorated with bits of bright orange doodles .
Thank God Tyler was a good athlete , because he had us out of that home in under ten seconds .
When we’d gotten to Tyler 's car , he put me in the front seat and buckled me in like a child .
“You’d better not hurl in my car , ” he’d warned , getting in next to me .
Still slightly dizzy , I didn’t say anything , only closed my eyes as we drove .
“What the hell were you thinking ? ” he’d asked sternly after a few minutes of silence .
“I mean , seriously , Rani ? ” I still hadn’t wanted to talk , so I’d just shrugged my shoulders .
“Well , I certainly ca n't take you home in this condition , ” he’d said with a sigh .
“So , let 's just go to a park and chill out for a while.” I’d agreed .
When we’d reached the park and got out of the car for some fresh air , it had made me feel much better .
“Here , ” he’d ordered handing me a stick of gum .
I’d popped the gum into my mouth and the minty flavor had never tasted so good .
“Better ? ” “Yes , ” I’d answered and then began to shiver from the chill in the air .
He’d noticed and removed his jacket .
“Here , put this on” .
I’d thanked him quietly and then had slipped it on .
The jacket had still been warm from his body heat and had felt awesome .
Feeling better , I’d nudged in a little closer to him and then rested my head on his shoulder .
“Tyler , ” I’d whispered after we’d sat there for some time .
“I do n't really know what I’d do without you.” He’d chuckled .
“Right back at ya.” Smiling , I’d sat up and then we’d both stared at each other in silence .
When no words were spoken by either of us , I’d reached for him , gently pulling his face closer to mine .
We kissed , and then kissed some more , and I was waiting for the fireworks , or some type of spark , but there was… nothing .
Eventually , we’d pulled away from each other and then both of us had started laughing at the same time .
“Well I guess it is true , ” I’d said , as our laughter died down .
“What ? ” I’d smiled .
“Men and women can just be just friends.” Shaking his head and smiling , he’d unlocked the door and drove me home .
Chapter Two Rani The school year was coming to an end , and as I walked the halls , I noticed that they were still pretty empty .
Damn , that flu virus must be really spreading , I thought in dismay , hoping that I wouldn’t catch it .
Recently , we’d been informed about a rampant flu that was going around , and had been told to make sure that we washed our hands frequently , and stayed home if we were not feeling well .
Both Tyler and I had been fortunate enough not to catch the bug yet , so our lives went on as usual .
But , as time went on , I’d begun to notice that the students and faculty that had been out sick , returned to the school a little bit different than they had been before .
On Wednesday , I noticed a huge change in my Social Science teacher .
Mrs. Conolly , was usually a shy , quiet , mousy-haired teacher .
Normally , she wore the same kind of outfit every day , which consisted of slacks and turtlenecks .
She also usually spoke quietly , her voice barely above a whisper .
When she returned to school that morning after being out sick for a few days with the flu , she looked like a new woman .
She’d dyed her hair a platinum-blonde , was wearing form-fitting clothes , and held a new demeanor that demanded attention .
“Hey , Mrs. Conolly , ” smirked Jake McNally , eyeing the teacher up and down on her first day back .
“Looking good.” I’d expected her to blast him for talking to her like that .
Instead , she just smiled and said , “I know , Mr. McNally , and I am feeling good , too.” Then , they’d shared a smile as Jake took his seat .
I stared with my mouth open .
Was she serious , did I just hear that ?
The class bell rang and the rest of the students took their seats .
Many of the boys in the class were whispering to each other , and one kid in the class starting humming “Hot for Teacher” , a song by Van Halen .
This made the rest of the class burst out laughing .
I sat quietly , waiting for Mrs. Conolly to bring the class to order , but she did n't .
Instead , she turned around and went to the chalkboard .
Then , she started writing down the next day’s assignment , and I swear - it looked as if she was purposely bending over seductively , trying to give the guys in the front row a show .
I glanced at the girl sitting next to me and she looked just as disturbed as I felt .
Stunned , I looked again at my teacher , and almost threw up in my mouth .
Mrs. Conolly was twerking !
I didn’t think anything else could rattle me as much as that did .
Boy , was I ever wrong .
Chapter Three Tyler “Tyler ! ” my mom called .
“It’s time for dinner .
Wash up and come downstairs ! ” I shut off the television , dragged myself out of bed , and went into my bathroom to wash up .
When I stepped into the dining room , both of my parents looked at me with odd expressions .
“What’s up ? ” I asked .
Mom forced a smile .
“Um , not much .
Hope you’re hungry.” Even though my mom had made my favorite , chicken enchiladas , I had to admit , I wasn’t feeling very hungry .
There was a dance coming up the following week and I’d been trying to think of a way to invite Rani without scaring her off .
Although she’d always insisted that we were just friends , I still couldn’t help the intense feelings that I kept hidden from her .
Every time we were together , and she smiled up at me or laughed , I wanted to grab her and try that kiss one more time .
Make her want me the way that I wanted her .
But , I was afraid it would destroy our friendship , and at least that was something .
“Dig in , ” my father said as he scooped a generous helping of enchiladas onto his plate .
“Looks good , Diane , ” he continued , adding a large dollop of sour cream to the top .
“Thanks , sweetheart , ” she replied , beaming at him .
“Just try to save enough for the rest of us.” She turned to me .
“Tyler , honey , you better grab some before your Dad takes it all.” I nodded and put a small piece on my plate .
As I picked at my food , an image of Rani popped into my head again .
How in the hell was I going to get her to go with me to the dance ?
I knew she wanted to go , and there was no way I’d be able to handle it if she went without me .
No way .
“You okay ? ” asked mom .
I looked up from my food .
“Yeah .
Fine.” “Okay , ” she replied , staring at me curiously .
I glanced over at my dad , who normally had half of his plate devoured before I even started , and noticed that he’d barely touched his enchiladas .
In fact , as he stared down at his pile of food , he actually looked a little sad .
“Hey , Dad , ” I teased .
“What 's the problem ?
Is it too spicy for ya ? ” We and had the same inside joke .
A year ago , we’d gone to the Minnesota State fair and had entered a jalapeno eating contest together .
Before we’d even arrived in the parking lot , he’d bragged that since he’d married mom , he’d grown a cast-iron stomach .
“Son , the secret to eating spicy food is to just swallow it whole , and plug your nose , ” he’d informed me after we’d sat down at the picnic table , waiting for the contest to begin .
“Okay , ” I’d replied , trying to sound braver than I actually felt .
I’d had jalapenos before , but not a lot , and definitely not in one sitting .
“On your mark… get set… go ! ” yelled the announcer , after they’d given all ten of us a quart-sized bowl of the whole peppers .
I still remember looking down at them , and just the smell had made my eyes water .
I’d glanced over at my dad , who’d already swallowed at least ten and was stuffing in another , when I’d noticed his eyes - they were watering and he also had sweat running down his face .
“You okay ? ” I’d whispered .
Instead of answering me , he’d turned the most curious color of green I’d ever seen .
Next thing I knew , he opened his mouth and projected a gush of vomit so intense , that it would have given that kid , Regan , from The Exorcist movie a run for her money .
“Oh , my God ! ” a woman had cried , sitting in the front row , and who was now covered in chunks of jalapenos , corn dogs , and cotton candy .
“You’ve got to be kidding me ?
! ” I’d tried to stifle a giggle as everything began to unravel around us .
There were three bedrooms and all of the doors were closed .
There was probably another dead child behind one of them .
Then the guilty and distressed parent , come murderer , behind the last .
Choked with sadness and probably hung .
He strode in a straight line across the tidy flat and to the door at the other end of the living space .
Nothing had been broken and oddly nothing looted .
The picture frames were still hung neatly to the decorated walls .
Nothing had been overturned and none of the ornaments on any of the shelves had been broken .
That went against his experience and against his expectations .
The situation had unfolded fast , that much he knew , but he was beginning to think he might have massively underestimated it .
The outbreak was far too quick for anyone to brave looting .
The television was on the floor and the wood that used to be the cabinet on which it stood had been used to barricade the door .
It was sloppy at best .
The nails were bent so he concluded silently that they had been hastily hammered right through into the plasterboard walls behind it .
The odd screw had been drilled in too .
These people had been no handymen .
He holstered his weapon and reached with both hands around the bulk of the messily placed and weak wood .
With the right leverage in the right place he pulled the barricade as one solid mass right off the wall .
He placed it on the carpet without a sound and unbolted the door as quietly as he could manage .
Peering through the peep hole he could see only a thin corridor lit eerily by flickering lights on the other side .
But nothing more .
The building must have had some kind of backup generator .
The door , now free of the latch and bar , pushed open with ease .
He closed it behind him .
Hopefully by closing the door he could keep this poor families’ mausoleum safe for a while longer .
He didn’t take his gun back out of the holster .
He could see just fine with the odd interruption as the lights flickered .
The generator must have been slowly failing too .
The hall was bland .
Just a simple old apartment building and nothing more .
The residents were far from rich .
The blandness of the pale grey walls was interrupted only with the odd notice or poster and a few kids’ drawings on the skirting board at the bottom of the communal hall .
An irregular banging noise interrupted the silence .
It was coming from above and getting louder with each aggressive and hollow thud .
Maybe someone was in trouble .
Logan started to jog down the long hall but made sure to go slowly enough to check every doorway and every flat .
Some were open but no life was obvious from inside of any of them .
He was in good shape for his age and didn’t even break a sweat as he made for the stairwell at the other side of the building .
He opened the next door in the same cautious way and strode inside the dark stairwell .
He took his gun again and flicked the light back on .
He held it low and leapt up the stairs three at a time .
The banging got louder and louder with each three step leap , and as he drew closer to the next floor he could just about make out a lady screaming and panting hard for breath .
He must have been getting closer .
He reached for the door that led to the apartments on the next floor and silently pulled it open .
He stepped gently into the hall and listened hard for any clues as to where he should go from there .
He could hear the woman louder now .
It was a scream of panic if ever he heard one .
She sounded young too .
He slowed his pace to a powerful walk and kept his weapon drawn .
He could hear a man too .
They could only have been around the next corner or closed inside a flat out of view .
With a few more gentle paces he rounded a corner to an open door .
There was a young lady on the floor , terrorized by a bulky looking man with her trousers around her ankles and her vest top torn at the shoulder .
She just about caught Logan’s eye with an enhanced look of horror on her face .
She must have thought Logan was another one .
Or one of her attacker’s friends .
The attacker had his back to Logan and hadn’t seen him .
He had a thick green camouflage jacket on over his ample and muscular frame .
He was naked from the waist down and his intentions were obvious .
Logan holstered his gun and walked slowly , stealthily , over to the scene of what was about to be a rape .
The woman said nothing and tried to crawl away backwards .
Her elbows fell awkwardly on the bare wooden floor with some agonizing crunches .
She couldn’t get away fast enough .
The man was nursing his sore balls by the looks of it and swearing as loud as he could at the woman on the floor .
She must have gotten a lucky and heavy swing at him .
That had slowed him down for sure .
And slowed down his ability to rape too .
Logan reached around the man’s shoulder , grabbed his wrist and twisted .
The man howled and dropped to his knees , turning at last to see Logan .
To see his chiseled jaw , his rugged and ravaged complexion and the short black and white stubble around his chin .
He stared at him with piercing dark eyes and continued twisting until the sound of a snap confirmed that he had broken something .
He howled again and again then swore some more and punched the floor with his free hand .
The woman had used the distraction to finally scramble away and pull all of her clothes back to their correct places .
She put a coat on too and slowly stood .
Logan reached down around his victim’s elbow and pulled the man to his feet .
His hand hung at an odd angle pointing off to the side somewhere .
He had tears in his eyes .
He was young , super strong by the looks of him , and at least a foot taller than Logan .
Logan slammed the man off the nearest wall and quickly over to the next with two dull thuds .
He grabbed at the half naked man’s other arm and propelled him back into the hall behind him .
He shuffled to his feet and tried to run with some pathetic mumblings .
But Logan was back on top of him quickly .
No way could he let him go .
This guy might have been with a pack , or might have had a few dangerous friends that would make this fight much longer and harder than it needed to be .
He lifted his right leg and with precision swung a roundhouse kick right into the tall young man’s ribs .
A crack and repeated coughs of blood stained phlegm confirmed he had broken at least one .
‘Wait…’ Gestured the women behind .
‘Don’t kill him.’ She sounded sheepish .
Not ungrateful but she did have sincerity in her voice .
Logan had no intention of killing the man .
But he was going to knock him clean out with one final kick to the man’s jaw .
That cracked too and hung dislocated to one side as the attacker slumped to the floor .
Logan took a deep breath to re-compose himself and turned to face the lady he had saved .
She still looked scared but the color was coming back to her face quickly .
She stood a good few inches shorter than he with long black flowing hair .
She couldn’t have been older than maybe 25 .
Thin , attractive , with a dainty face and nice green eyes .
She needed a damn good meal in her stomach by the look of her though .
She stumbled over her first few words .
‘Are those real ? ’ She asked .
Mom picked up the phone , began looking pale and shocked then sat down .
Next she said to me , “We need to get to the emergency room now .
Your father has been in an accident.” She was so sick with worry that she made me drive .
By the time we got there and found his room we were met with a nurse .
She stopped us before we could get inside .
“Maam , ” She said .
“Would you please step with me into the conference room to meet with the doctor ?
He will be right with us” .
My mom lost it .
She and I both knew why we were being intercepted .
Something was seriously wrong .
The nurse tried her best to console her but she knew it was not an option at this point .
All she could do was conceal us in that conference room until the doctor arrived .
All I could do was hold my mother .
I was numb , terrified and fuming that the doctor kept us waiting .
The doctor , I still remember his name-David Jennings .
He was a Porterville emergency room doctor .
He was trusted for the most part , but only as much as Porterville hospital could be trusted , and that is not saying a lot .
He approached the room and asked if he could speak with my mom .
She verified who she was and then those fateful words came out .
“I’m sorry Mrs. Jacobs .
We did everything we could .
He didn’t make it” .
The rest of the night was a blur .
The doctor had to sedate my mother .
I’m not sure if he did it because of her blood curdling screams , or because she had become violent about it .
Thinking back , I think it was a mixture of both .
We spent the night holding each other in the E.R. , because the doctor didn’t want to release her until she was stable .
6pm the next evening we were finally headed home with a prescription for my mom for xanax and strict instructions for taking it .
My mother grew to be emotionless over time .
My father’s death took a great toll on her .
She stopped attending church .
She pushed away anyone who loved her .
She even screamed at those sweet ladies from the church that brought her meals in those first few weeks .
She also became distant with me .
And that is around the time she sent me to live with my Aunt Brooke .
Aunt Brooke was more than accommodating to me .
She comforted me and loved me the way my mom neglected to in those days following the accident .
It wasn’t the same as having a mother’s love but it was pretty darn close .
But if I could ever say that I had a second mom , it would have been her .
Aunt Brooke was fun to be around and she certainly kept me from being serious all of the time .
Her free spirit rubbed off on me for sure .
I can vividly remember her turning on the music channel and blasting Aerosmith’s Walk this way .
She always made me dance with her .
I felt goofy about it but it was sort of therapeutic .
I guess she knew what I needed at the time more than I did .
To this day I still blast music and dance awkwardly to it .
Mom would call every few weeks or so to check on me but eventually the calls ceased and we never heard from her again .
Aunt Brooke and I tried to find her but to no avail .
The neighbors said she was doing some pretty weird stuff before she disappeared .
She probably ended up in some psych ward after that .
Who knows .
All I knew was I was 15 and alone in this world .
Not only did I lose my father , but I also lost my mother that dreadful day .
Living with Aunt Brooke wasn’t bad .
It was as nice as it could be for an orphaned 15 year old that had her whole life ripped away from her .
I think my saving grace during that time was my cousin Zoe .
Zoe was understanding but not pushy about discussing my feelings .
She knew how to listen .
She quickly became my best friend .
If it hadn’t been for her , I would not have made it through the whole next year of my life .
Zoe is different from other people , but not in a bad way .
She is kind of a tough girl and a year younger than me .
Most people would look at her and call her a tomboy .
She liked guns and could work on a car with the best of men !
She never ceased to amaze me .
She was tough yet she could let you cry on her shoulder and reassure you that it was gon na be alright .
We didn’t move off to college like we had planned .
I don’t think either of us was ready for such a commitment yet .
So we did the next best thing that anyone from a small town does .
We got an apartment together and attended community college .
I am 23 now and we are still best friends .
We fight like any other family sharing a tiny apartment .
But I wouldn’t change my life right now for anything else .
We lived in somewhat solitude together .
She knows me so well that she knows when to talk and when not to .
I’m just now beginning to move on with my life , but there are still days like today that I am a bit sad .
She calls me moody , but she is wrong .
I am only still processing my emotions .
Thumbing through photo albums probably doesn’t help my emotions .
Zoe is not much different now from how she was when I moved in with her and Aunt Brooke , although she is a bit more tattooed than my taste .
I begged her not to get tattoos where people could see them but she didn’t think it was a bad idea .
I guess it all feeds into her tough girl image .
It’s not just an image though ; she is kind of a tough girl .
I decided it was time to stop reminiscing about the past , because it was kind of a downer .
So I did some house work and then decided to rest off this cold .
I turned on the TV .
for some background noise and next thing I know I was waking up to the afternoon news .
“The country is on a state of emergency .
The scientists that were working on mutating the aids virus in order to find a cure have made some huge mistakes .
They have mutated the virus into something completely different and have accidentally infected some of the population with this new super virus .
The effects are unknown at this time , but we do know the virus is quickly spreading .
It has not been released as to exactly how the virus is spreading or what symptoms it is causing .
Please stay tuned to our news broadcast for more information on the spot.” Proclaimed anchor Snow on our local channel 9 news .
“What the heck , ” proclaimed Zoe from her chair in the corner of the room .
Startled I responded , “When did you come in ?
! ” “You were asleep dummy !
Did you hear the news ?
What does this mean ? ” “I wish I knew , ” I replied .
“I guess we should keep an eye on the news and try to keep from going out unless we have to .
“Just pulled a muscle , I think , ” he said .
She nodded , though she knew it was more than that .
None of my business , she thought .
Too bad .
Such a handsome man .
“Well , enjoy the fireworks , ” he said cheerfully .
He walked away , and she watched him go .
He turned around and winked at her .
She sighed and set about trying to smooth things over with Stuart .
She didn’t want her entire evening to go to waste .
Slowly but surely , she coddled and reassured him until he was back to his calmer self .
Again , she drew him away from the others , and soon they were sitting in the dark together .
They chatted about little things ; later , Jamie couldn’t even remember what they had talked about .
It was enough for her , at the time , just to be talking to another person .
He was a younger guy than she ever would have dared flirt with when she was alive , but she was finding she didn’t much care about human judgments and restrictions anymore .
She might have rewarded this young man if the evening had kept progressing the same way , but then the fireworks started , and they fell silent except to echo the oohs and aahs they heard up and down the beach .
When the last shimmering fragment fell into the ocean and those around them started packing up to go , it was as if someone had flipped a switch .
Perhaps Stuart had guzzled too much wine while they’d been staring into the sky .
He didn’t lean in toward her , inviting a kiss , as she might have wanted .
Instead , he grabbed her , turned her around , and began biting her neck .
She winced and almost laughed aloud at the thought of this human biting her in the neck .
Do vampires get hickeys ?
she wondered .
He is just overeager , she thought .
She gently pushed him away , but that seemed to anger him , and he grabbed her harder than before .
“Stop , ” she said .
“Go easy , Stuart .
I like you.” He didn’t say anything , just came on stronger than ever .
His playful fondling became insistent and he used his strength to pin her down .
The look in his eyes , glinting in the moonlight , was cold and calculating .
“I’ve been playing your little game all evening , ” he growled .
“You play hard to get , but I noticed you managed to ditch the others…” “I just wanted to tal––” she started to say .
He put his mouth over hers and began thrusting his tongue into her mouth .
Her eyes widened as she wondered if he was going to puncture his flesh on her lengthening fangs .
Then it was too late .
Maybe he would’ve backed off , maybe he wouldn’t have , but she’d gotten a taste of him , and it had been too long since she had fed .
Jamie was surprised by how sweet his blood tasted .
He struggled weakly , his efforts already undermined by the bottle of wine .
She had taken only a few swallows because she’d thought that wine didn’t affect her .
Now she was finding out that , transmuted by a victim’s blood , the effects of wine were magnified and deepened .
Underneath it all , she felt sadness at this poor boy’s fate .
He was a young man , rash in his actions , who would never grow up to learn wisdom .
Perhaps he would have broken off if she’d protested enough , if she’d been the young woman she appeared to be .
Perhaps he would’ve come to his senses .
But now she would never know .
She left him on top of her as she drained him , his body dead weight .
There was sadness permeating her hunger , but for a few moments , there was anger , too .
Too many times , when she’d been a living girl , men like this had forced themselves on her .
She’d almost come to expect it .
But now she had the strength and power to do something about it .
Somehow , even as he was dying , Stuart summoned enough strength to cry out , “I’m sorry ! ” Jamie faltered , her fangs receding into her jaws without her being conscious of it .
Finish it !
she heard Horsham say in her mind .
Her Maker’s voice was insistent .
You must finish it !
“Are you all right , miss ? ” she heard someone ask .
Over Stuart’s shoulder , she could see the Mutt and Jeff cops returning .
They’d heard his cry and had mistaken it for hers .
“Is this guy bothering you ? ” Stuart moaned , and she pushed him off her .
He rolled a couple of inches until he was facedown in the sand .
Jamie got up calmly .
“He’s had too much to drink , ” she said .
“You better get his nose out of the sand , ” the shorter cop said .
He hurried over and turned Stuart over .
There was blood all over his neck and down his chest .
She’d bitten the artery , as she’d been taught , and the blood began spurting up toward the policeman , who cursed and fell backward .
The boy was going to bleed out in seconds .
All that wonderful sweet blood going to waste .
“What the… ? ” the tall cop cried .
“What’s going on here ? ” Jamie was backing away .
She could try to explain , but what was the point ?
They weren’t carrying firearms ; there was nothing they could do to stop her .
She turned and ran , and she knew that to the two cops , it would look as if she had disappeared into the darkness .
Chapter 2 “Terrill has been found , ” Hargraves intoned as if it was gospel .
He had the appearance of a 10-year-old boy , and it was always slightly humorous that he was so serious .
“Horsham is dead.” Fitzsimmons met this news with a kind of glee .
Council meetings had been entirely too tame and routine lately , as far as he was concerned .
They were meeting in an old , staid financial firm in London , but it was still a far more modern meeting place than the drafty castles they’d been meeting in for most of their history , much less the bare caves of their first meetings .
As far as Fitzsimmons was concerned , this was the first bit of interesting news to be brought for their review in what seemed like centuries .
He was about to say “Good ! ” when Southern beat him to it .
Southern could always be counted on to react first , without thinking .
He was a tall , aristocratic man who had added gray streaks to his beard and hair , though his face and hands were without blemish .
He was one of the richest men in England and in the news often , so he’d taken the trouble to create the façade that he was aging like a normal human .
Fitzsimmons preferred to stay in the shadows .
He looked ordinary in every way : brown hair , slightly overweight , medium height , a forgettable face .
It wasn’t by accident .
He’d cultivated that look for millennia .
“That’s good news , ” Southern said .
“Horsham dead and Terrill found .
I presume the two items are related ? ” Everyone knew that Horsham had hated Terrill and had been searching for him for years to exact revenge .
“It appears so , ” Hargraves said .
“Then Terrill did us a favor , ” Fitzsimmons said .
“We were going to have to take care of Horsham one of these days anyway .
He was culling the humans a little too vigorously for our safety.” “Yet , ” interjected Peterson , ever the legal scholar .
He was the rare vampire who had been bitten when he was an old man , and he’d never totally lost his fussy-old-man ways .
“Horsham wasn’t doing anything illegal.” Fitzsimmons turned to his colleague and raised his eyebrows slightly , as if to say , When has that ever stopped us from doing what is necessary ?
There was barely a quorum for this meeting : five members out of the ten total .
Even that many attendees was rare these days .
Yes , it had been entirely too boring for entirely too long .
But a quorum is a quorum , Fitzsimmons thought , and that means decisions can be made .
She felt a sharp pain in her neck , and a slow agony spread down her body .
Then she became weak and sleepy , as if her life was being drained away .
When Simone awoke , she was lying in a puddle of blood on the bare concrete floor .
Laura was still lying where the Monster had dropped her , but she was breathing now .
Patty was sprawled on the broken-down couch in her usual spot , unmoving .
As Simone tried to rise to her knees , Patty gasped and sat up .
“What was that ? ” Patty exclaimed .
“What did he do ? ” Laura was stirring , too .
She groaned and rolled over , and then , surprisingly , for she had given up moving from her little bundle of blankets in the corner years ago , she got to her feet and walked as far as her chains would allow .
She looked confused , and her eyes searched Simone’s for answers .
“I feel different , ” she muttered .
Simone understood what she was saying .
She , too , felt transformed , as if she had more energy and strength .
She looked at the corner of the run-down basement where the trash had been thrown .
She could see a rat in the midst of the garbage , and felt a sudden urge to try to catch it and… She shook her head .
That made no sense .
They’d been fed only the day before ; she wasn’t so hungry that she needed to do something like that .
She glanced over at the rubbish pile : bag after bag that had once held Burger King and McDonald’s value meals ; empty boxes of cereal and granola ; the remains of loaves of bread that had already been days old when they’d been purchased––whatever the Monster could pick up cheaply and in bulk .
The pile of garbage had always been in the dark , so Simone had been able to safely ignore it .
She’d become impervious to the smell , too .
Now she could see it clearly , could see the maggots swarming over the remnants of hamburgers , the black insects eating the slimy lettuce .
The odor made her gag , but also made her hungry .
After he’d done… whatever he’d done to them , he hadn’t come back for three days , and the girls were getting tense , afraid of what he’d do when he returned .
When he finally showed up , he didn’t even come downstairs .
Instead , he threw the corpse of a dog down into the cellar .
It landed equidistant from the three of them , at the far length of their chains .
They stared at each other for a moment , then Patty and Simone scampered toward the dead meat .
But Simone got there just before them .
She grabbed the dog and pulled it out of reach of the others .
Before she knew it , she was tearing into the animal’s flesh .
She looked up , her face wet with blood , and saw snarls on Patty and Laura’s faces .
Their jaws seemed to have elongated , with long fangs jutting down over their lips , and they had a reddish glow in their eyes .
Simone stopped in mid-feeding .
She was still hungry , but at the last minute , she remembered that the others hadn’t eaten either .
She tore what was left of the carcass in half and tossed the parts to her fellow prisoners .
Patty was savage in devouring her portion ; Laura seemed aware that there was something odd in their behavior and looked over the fur at Simone with a question in her eyes : What’s happening to us ?
# That had been over a week ago , and they had used up what water was left in the basement .
He usually left three buckets of water at the base of the stairs , one for each of them .
Only Simone had shown enough restraint to have any left : a day’s worth , at best .
The three girls had always referred to their captor as the Monster , but they’d always known he was a man , albeit an evil man .
Now Simone realized he really was a monster , and so were they .
“Why hasn’t he come back ? ” Laura demanded .
Patty and Simone exchanged glances .
Both of them had heard the gunshots and explosions outside , though Laura either hadn’t heard the commotion or had decided to ignore it .
Something had changed , not only in the nature of their captor , but also in their own bodies , and something was happening to the world outside as well .
“We should wait , ” Patty said .
“He wouldn’t want us to leave.” Simone scoffed .
It wasn’t the chains and locks that had kept them captive for so long .
She felt strangely fearless , as if , for the first time , she could defend herself .
Let the Monster return ; she’d rip his throat out .
The basement was huge , as if it was below an apartment building or an office complex instead of a small two-bedroom house .
It was this unusual feature that had probably attracted the Monster .
He didn’t live in the house .
The windows were boarded up , the lawn was dead and the single functional light was a bare bulb that burned day and night over the steps to the basement .
The basement walls were bare rock , crumbling , and the floor was cracked concrete .
It was one large , open space , and the three corners farthest away from the light were eternally dark .
There was a toilet under the stairs that each of them could barely reach .
Small slotted windows near the ceiling had been covered up by cardboard , but they could see the passing of day and night .
After nearly six years , Simone still didn’t know anything about the Monster––his name , where he lived , what he did for a living––except that he wanted sex and wanted it rough , and didn’t ever look them in the eyes or talk to them .
Simone wondered what would have happened if she had been alone .
Though it wasn’t something she would wish on her worst enemy , it was a blessing to have the two other girls with her .
Patty was difficult and Laura was simple , but Simone had learned to love them both , perhaps more than she ever had her own brothers and sisters , whom she barely remembered .
The girls knew every single fact of each other’s brief thirteen years of experience outside : every story , every feeling , everything they could describe .
They’d spend day after day trying to bring the outside world alive , but only Simone had managed to hang onto hope .
Laura had begun as a frightened little girl who could still occasionally giggle at jokes and talk endearingly about her plans to become a veterinarian .
As the years passed , she’d begun to fall silent , to become nonresponsive .
Meanwhile , Patty had become more vocal , more strident , especially as the Monster began to lose interest in her .
The more he ignored her , the more she tried to get his attention , nearly stripping whenever he came down the stairs , talking to him in a morbidly erotic way that made Simone blush .
Simone endured what the Monster did to her , pretending to be someone else , somewhere far away .
She didn’t fight him ; she didn’t encourage him .
She certainly wasn’t disappointed when he began to turn more of his attention toward Laura , though she felt for the younger girl , and sometimes , when Laura was being particularly nonresponsive , she tried to seduce the Monster in much the same way that Patty tried .
“He’s not coming back , ” Simone said .
She started to pull at her handcuffs , trying to squeeze the fingers of one hand into as narrow a space as possible .
She reached her knuckles and couldn’t get any farther .
She pulled harder , felt her bones almost crack under the pressure , felt her skin splitting and blood running down her forearm .
But no matter how hard she tried , even with her newfound strength , she couldn’t get her hand loose .
Simone cried out in despair .
She fell back on her rear and put her arm over her eyes , feeling the blood seep onto her neck .
“Told you , ” Patty said .
“We have to wait.” “We can’t wait ! ” Simone shouted , sitting back up .
In frustration , she grabbed the chains and yanked with all her pent-up fury .
She’d done it a thousand times before and had always met the solid resistance of rock and steel .
This time , she felt something shift in her hands and heard a grinding sound .
She looked over and saw that the hook was coming loose from the wall .
One last wrench and it detached and fell to the floor with a loud clang .
All three girls froze , waiting for the Monster to hear and come down the stairs and punish them .
Then Simone was gathering up the chains and wrapping them around her shoulders and arms .
They were heavy , but she could move .
She started up the stairs .
“Wait ! ” she heard Patty cry out .
“What ? ” “Where are you going ? ” “I’m going to get us free , Patty .
Free from the Monster.” Chapter 2 Hoss and his followers were trapped in the Armory .
The skylights washed the floor with daylight , and the breaches in the walls from the Wildering attacks exposed most of the warehouse to the sun .
Only one corner was still dark , and Hoss and his twenty or so supporters were clustered close together there .
Facing them , as impossible as it seemed , were vampires with blood the color of gold .
The sunlight washed over them , exposing their pale white skin , but doing nothing more damaging to them .
The legendary Terrill stood at the center of this group , with his human love , Sylvie , next to him .
She had never left his side during the fighting , though she could not bring herself to kill .
She’d scrounged for ammunition and weapons , and every time Terrill had needed to be resupplied , she’d been there .
Clarkson , the blonde-haired female member of the Council of Vampires , stood beside them .
Not the fish though , the fish are safe , cloaked in the darkness beneath the water .
A car rumbles up the driveway .
Sue and Mac have returned .
Given how long it 's been since we 've seen a living soul we have started to use Mrs Robinsons little run-around to scavenge the local area .
They will have fuel , hopefully , to refill the butane gas canisters the Robinson 's had installed .
Now all we need is some fish .
But I am in no rush , if I can wait they can wait .
After a few minutes I hear the patio door slide open .
I crane my head and smile .
There she is , this could be any Summer .
Her low cut dress shows off her gorgeous legs and those soft smooth thighs .
Sunglasses hide beautiful blue eyes that would make the sky above me jealous if if had the wit to look upon her , if it had the privilege of gazing into them as I do .
Lush auburn hair frames a pale freckled complexion .
She stops in her tracks , her smile is frozen , strained , struggling to maintain its presence on that most beautiful of faces .
She 's brought out two bottles of lager , looks like Budweiser , I do n't mind so much , I can drink American .
Besides , it 's all limited edition these days .
But she has stopped , and the smile has gone .
In slow motion I see the two perspiring bottles fall from her hand and break apart on impact with the patio .
She pulls the tortoise shell sunnies from her face .
Then I see the terror .
That 's where it lurks for us all , behind the eyes , behind the beauty .
But it 's not me , it 's beyond me she 's looking .
Dazzled to distraction by this wife of mine who makes me weak with her walk I barely noticed the tension on the line , the tug of the fishing rod which I have left dangling in the water .
Her terror jolts me out of contentment .
I spin around and watch the placid water break as something emerges from it .
It 's a fish .
Or rather it 's half a fish .
The poor bugger has already been half consumed by the thing which emerges with the fish in its maw .
A cadaver .
Grey , bloody skin .
A dead thing which does n't know it 's dead .
Who it may have been is irrelevant these days .
It and it 's kind have eaten apart the world and now it 's eating my god damned fish .
The slow , shuffling thing walks up out of the water towards me , my sons shout warnings from behind me , Sue just gasps and her heart beats so loud I think can hear it from twenty feet away , or maybe it 's my own heart and I am no longer able to distinguish between the two .
I do n't move , too sullen , too morbid .
I realise then the false hope that my contentment had given me .
I can hear the boys running across the patio behind me , they would n't be in time , it was only a couple of feet away .
As its shadow falls over me I look up into the cadavers eyes , eyes which once bloomed with the ambition of a mortal man .
There is no beauty there .
Once maybe , but now , now those orbs are torn , ripped up by bulging capillaries which have shed their blood and made it look as if the thing has been weeping .
But those sanguine tears , laced over dead skin do not fool me , it is as incapable of crying as it is of anything else besides killing and eating .
In a blur of motion I sweep up the machete that 's sticking up out of the ground beside me , in a heartbeat the blade cleaves clean through the skull of the person who used to be .
Grey matter flies here and there , what little blood is left splatters onto the long grass .
Bits of dead thing float away across the surface of the lake .
The cadaver falls back into the water and is gone from sight within moments until only red ripples remain .
I look down at the half eaten fish at my feet .
Damn .
Chapter 2 , The thing in the garden “Are you feeling better ? ” The patient did not answer .
The patient thrashed on the table .
The man in the white coat moved to the other side .
He administered some more medicine .
“Are you feeling better ? ” he asked again .
The patient did not answer .
The patient could not answer .
The patient struggled feebly against the restraints .
The man in the white coat administered an extra large helping of medicine .
This elicited an audible response .
Not words .
It is hard to form words when your tongue has been severed by a half a hundred cuts from a rusty scalpel .
No , no words would escape the patient , but he managed a low guttural retching sound , an attempt at a scream perhaps , or an unutterable curse maybe .
The man in the white coat moved around the table continuing to administer healthy doses of the medicine .
The patient cried a lot , when he was n't trying to scream or spit blood and bits of tongue at the face of the man in the white coat .
At one point he who held the medicine stopped and pulled off his protective face mask .
His kindly green eyes held a feigned concern , he smiled a cold old smile .
“Are you feeling better ?
Are you feeling better ?
Are you feeling better ? ” The patient did not answer .
The patient could not answer .
He could only watch as the blade plunged home again and again , as his lifeblood filled the slippery surface of the metallic table on which he lay , before dripping to the floor like a slow red rain .
Eventually the man in the white coat moved away from him , to another table , another of the many patients in the room , but still he could hear the soft voice asking the same question over and over and over..”Are you feeling better” Ellie had a cough .
When she 'd been younger she 'd got coughs and we used to worry .
Me and Sue would lay together listening to her coughing through the wall , we would chew our nails and we would worry and then we would take her to the doctor .
There was nowhere to take her now .
So we just lay there and listened and worried .
Following the attack from the cadaver in the lake the air of relaxation which had settled upon us over the winter months disappeared .
We were again held in a state of constant vigilance .
There were more cadaver attacks , perhaps they 'd been there through the winter but the ice which had covered the lake prevented them from surfacing ?
who knows .
But now the sun was shining longer and warmer and we noticed more deathwalkers than we did before , not enough to make us move on , just enough to keep us permanently on edge , constant fear will get to you after a time .
And now we had Ellie 's cough to worry about .
I can hear it right this moment , making its way down through the floorboards , assailing my position as a responsible parent , but there was no one to take her to any more , no doctors and nurses , so all I could do was listen to a cough which more and more was starting to sound like mocking laughter .
Sue was going around blowing out the candles .
It turns out that the dearly departed Mrs Robinson was a big fan of candles as well as earl grey tea .
And not cheap candles which burn themselves out of existence in a couple of hours , the old dame had a horde of big , fat , tallow candles , the kind that can hold back the darkness for days and days and yet barely break into a waxy sweat .
We 'd planted vegetables in the garden , we 'd turned the house into a castle , we scavenged , we inventoried , we decapitated and we survived .
Cough , cough , cough .
I was sitting staring deep into flame which earnestly danced this way and that to avoid scrutiny when she spoke .
“Rob” said my wife , my darling Sue .
There comes a point , when you have been with someone so long , when so many sentences and feelings have passed between you that even with the space of a single word you can hear a hundred different meanings based on the tiniest alterations of inflection .
There is the “Rob” that she would say if she wanted me to help with the drying up .
There is the “Rob” she would say if she wanted me to help with a crossword puzzle .
Then there was this “Rob” , the one she 'd just said , the one I hated , the one that contained all the fear .
My machete never left my side these days .
It came to hand as easily now as say a pen or a mobile phone had done before .
I joined her by the kitchen window .
She 'd just blown the candle out and a thin wisp of smoke was rising up and bumping against the glass as it slowly dissipated and became one with the universe .
I put a comforting hand on a shaking shoulder , I looked out into the garden to try and spy what made my lady love tremble so .
Something moved out there , between us and the lake lapping gently at the shore .
The problem was that this was n't cadaver movement .
For all their horrific nature the maggot men are slow and easy to despatch provided they do n't get the drop on you .
Wandering the metal halls of our floating home .
I have stepped off the edge of the earth and this is where I landed , this is certainly not my world , and though they look like my people they are alien in their notions and their intent .
I am not sure what is worse .
Memories of those early days when we were filled with the dread of not knowing , or these modern times , when we are accustomed to our fate , to the long slow decline we suffer until the sea claims us .
As I make my way up to the command centre I exchange nods with similarly dead eyed fellow prisoners .
In the early days , amidst the chaos and the smoke we could conjure illusions of what might be .
But the now is advanced in its ages , and has shown us the truth of our demise .
My role in construction of the carrier was concerned with the engineering of the ships advanced weapons and communication systems .
As such I had been designated some sort of impromptu 'chief technical officer ' .
It is for that reason that I am allowed on the command deck and am invited to take part in the weekly meetings of the ships senior officers .
I do not say much , it seems to me that the talking is done by those who still have hope .
Less and less is said each week , there will come a time I think when we will all just sit around in silence waiting to sink .
At the start this room was a neat orderly command centre .
Manned around the clock by an advanced team of communications officers who would bring in up to the minute information on the state of play in the United Kingdom and the wider world .
Captain Skellen , the ranking officer on board would coordinate with his team , lending what limited assistance he could to regular forces on the ground battling against the outbreak .
As time went by there was less and less to communicate , fewer battles , not because we were winning , but because the military had been decimated by the conflict and was waging the war with ever dwindling manpower .
Then came the big one , the Battle of London .
The militaries last ditch attempt to regain control of the capital .
For five days we listened to the screams of the dying over the radio .
Then it all went quiet , we heard nothing more from the land , satellite communications went offline , we were alone .
Now after a year of chaos the command room is a mess .
It reeks of stale sweat , cigars and liqueur .
The shiny console screens are dark , the room is filled with the essence of defeat and despair .
As I take my seat in the shadows I look around at the dishevelled officer core who sit and mumble to each other and to themselves .
Just in front of the captains chair I see an open file the contents of which immediately pique my interest .
The report inside is entitled 'Provisional theory 's on the nature of the Morphid threat ' .
Morphids , a name which was whispered more and more these days .
It had become evident as the conflict waged that we fought not only the dead but other equally foul foes .
Wild ideas circulated about their origins , about the confluence of the deathwalker virus mixed with high levels of radiation .
Whatever their source the presence of the Morphids was undeniable , malformed creatures , some which seemed to be hybrid of man and beast , some which seemed to have no discernible earthly origin .
Their numbers had grown considerably , to the extent that the foraging missions we launched were entirely prohibited from entering the southern counties due to the extent of the infestation .
I glanced down the document , noting a few designations for the various types of Morphids ; the many armed Genglers , Devils Dogs and Vulturion .
But my prying ceased when Captain Skellen entered the command centre , closing the file as he sat down .
There was an air of excitement about the man , a feverish enthusiasm which had been absent for many months .
The Captain briefed us on a new mission .
A three copter squad would fly further west than we 'd gone before , their objective , the Brampton Barracks .
At the name my attention focused , my heart began to race .
The barracks was only about thirty miles outside Carlisle , thirty miles from home , from them .
As the Captain rambled on about the potential benefits to be gained from the stores at Brampton I spoke .
“What about Carlisle ? ” I said interrupting .
The captain was a hard eyed man , a thirty year veteran of iron discipline , he alone amongst the officer core seemed to have found the will to maintain a clean shaven look throughout the apocalypse .
“What about it ? ” he barked .
I licked my lips and pondered my next words carefully .
“Pendragon Systems global headquarters at Edenpark is just outside the city” said I .
“Not too far from your home either I believe ? ” interjected Lieutenant Tasker with a slight sneer .
“Looking to go home Redmayne ? ” said Captain Skellen quizzically .
“No .
The coincidence is just that.” “Explain” So I told them .
I told them about the underground bunker at Edenpark .
I told them about the command and control centre it housed which might , just might still have an operational satellite link which could give us an idea of what was happening in the wider world , and allow us to link up the remnants of the Royal Navy in other parts of the globe .
They lapped it up , the thought of not being alone any more was enough to push them over into endorsing my plan .
I neglected to tell them that the chances of the building having power , let alone being able to establish a satellite link were slim to nil .
Let them have their hope , and I will have mine .
The Redmayne house was less than an hour from Edenpark , I would see what became of my dearest after that telephone call , and my fellow lost sailors would be none the wiser .
The meeting started to wind down .
Food was short , water was short , morale was low .
There had been two more rapes which had led to two more summary executions , two more bodies to feed to the water .
The fine details of the Brampton mission were hammered out and most of us made to leave .
I heard one of Captain Skellens aides mention a tertiary objective .
“A third mission ? ” queried Lieutenant Tasker .
“Yes” nodded the Captain .
“We have intercepted an unidentified radio signal , as we 're heading to Carlisle we may as well expand the mission to investigate that as well” “Where is it coming from ? ” I ask .
The Captain looks at his notes .
“A remote location , in the Lake District National Park , at a place called Ravensburg” .
Chapter 2 , Operation Black Rabbit The Lynx prowled the skies ahead of us .
It swooped from side to side across the land like a bird of prey .
I followed behind in the Puma while to our rear was the large Chinook where the bulk of the forty person foraging squad were on board keeping eyes on every horizon .
Surprisingly , despite being frequently laid low by the motion of the aircraft carrier on the waves , air travel did not phase me in the slightest .
Sadly the same could not be said of all of our entourage .
I 'd heard Lieutenant Tasker referring to the Chinook as the 'puke wagon ' and could well imagine there were a few green faces on board .
They should consider themselves lucky however .
The pace of the Chinook was relatively sedate compared with the breakneck sky racer that was the Lynx .
It swooped up and down like a peregrine falcon , guns trained on every broken window and swaying tree .
That was where Tasker rode , the vanguard , and I was well glad for that fact .
We 'd spent a week getting prepared .
During that time Skellen asked me a multitude of questions about Edenpark .
I told him the truth , the parts of it which I thought he 'd find palatable , the rest I left to chew over on my own time .
I could sense that he was having doubts about that part of the mission , so I spoon fed him as much as I could , until he was sick of worrying and would go along with it if I could deliver only a fraction of that which I was promising .
Supplies were packed , engines were fuelled and the squad was hand picked by the captain and his lieutenant .
We flew by charts and came in over a deserted piece of coast .
The ashen ruin of a lighthouse waited for as a greeting , a sign of things to come no doubt .
I got a lot of odd looks and very little in the way of conversation .
I 'd been a suit before the downfall and the ill fitting military fatigues did not erase that from peoples memories .
The people who went on these foraging missions were battle hardened veterans .
People who 'd become used to killing things with their bare hands .
I was not one of them , they knew it , I knew it .
But this was an opportunity not to be missed .
The first couple of days were as uneventful as days get in the world beyond the apocalypse .
Our birds had been fitted with specialised fuel tanks so staying aloft would not be a problem , but flying at night was not an option .
These assets were priceless , to lose any of them would be a setback from which we might not recover .
We took off from the deck of the carrier at first light and flew until the sky started to darken .
There had been several theories thrown as to why the days seemed to have gotten a lot shorter since the downfall .
The woeful among us said that it was probably because the sun was reluctant to try and shine life onto a dead world , the realistic among us said it was likely to do with the effects of a nuclear winter .
Either way the result was the same , sunlight was a precious commodity .
It had been a year since Britain succumbed to the cadaver , not a long time in the grand scheme of history yet much of the former nation was unrecognisable .
Very few of the towns and villages we came across had not been gutted by fire .
The absence of bodies was a testament to the nature of the death that had come to them .
Even so here and there I spied piles of bones with moss growing on them .
These mass death sites were too organised to have been the cadaver , perhaps one of the lynch mobs that appeared in the early days and attempted to instil order back into their own communities .
Perhaps one of the military 'cleansings ' that appeared later on in the conflict when the state grew so desperate as to begin mass slaughter of the infected .
You 've got a fine battle record -- -not to mention the tiresome old datum that you came thorugh with the highest marks in the history of the Academy .
I do n't need to ride herd on you . ''
`` Aw , forget it , Apollo . ''
The com crackled in silence for a moment , then Zac spoke again .
`` Say , what 're you going to do when the armistice is signed ?
Really go to one of those boring leisure planets ? ''
Apollo smiled .
He was n't sure that Zac , who always needed somebody to talk to , would understand what he was about to say .
`` When the war 's officially over , I do n't think I want to settle down on any planet .
Just long enough to refuel and relaunch . ''
`` Well , what are you planning to do for the postwar time , Apollo ? ''
`` Not sure .
But there 's a lot of space still to expore .
That 's the real challenge , Zac -- -deep star exploration .
Who knows what we 'll find beyond the Colonies ? ''
`` As long as it 's not more Cylons .
They jar my chips .
You looking forward to peace with them ?
I mean , really ? ''
`` If you mean , do I believe inpace with the Cylons , especially one that 'll last until the ink d ries on the treaty , my only answer is -- -- I do n't know .
But I do n't think we 'd better be discussing it over the com .
If we 're being monitored , it might be a little embarrassing back aboard the Galactica . ''
`` Yeah , how about that , Galactica ?
Your face red , Colonel Tigh , sir ? ''
`` Cut that out , Zac .
Keep your mind on the patrol .
Cimtar 's just ahead .
Let 's roll over and have a good look .
Whaddya say ? ''
`` Roger dodger , old codger . ''
In an instant they were hovering over their objective , a spacecraft that was large and ponderous , wasted looking .
It seemed to float aimlessly , bobbing like a baitless fishing lure in its own portion of the sea of space .
Above it was the old moon , below it a purplish layer of clouds tha Apollo did not recall as bing a normal feature of the barren , uninhabited planet .
`` What is it ? ''
Apollo whispered .
`` I 'll tell ya in a flash , '' Zac replied .
***** Zac punched out the combination that would identifiy the vehicle pictured on his scanner .
The intensity of the scanner pictured changed as various profiles of existing aircraft were compared with the antiquated conveyance under study .
A match was quickly made and the identification appeared in printed form below the picture .
`` Warbook says a Cylon tanker , '' Zac reported .
`` My scanner reads it empty . ''
Apollo 's voice became agitated .
`` An empty tanker ?
What in Kobol is an empty tanker doing way out here ? ''
`` And where 's the other ship , the one that ... '' `` Screened off by this one , apparently .
Under cover , as far as I can make out .
Funny -- -wonder what they 're hiding . ''
`` I do n't know , but it 's awfully close to those clouds . ''
Zac felt impatient , not ready to wait for his brother 's orders .
When he made captain like Apollo , he could give the commands .
Of course , by then Apollo would be an admiral or something , and probably telling Zac what to do .
Even though he had looked up to his gallant brother since childhood , even though his own prestige at the Academy had been enhanced by the tales of Apollo 's heroism that he had recounted to his classmates , Zac was eager to get out more on his own , perform the kind of seat-of-the-pants flying exploits that had made Apollo so famous on all the battlestars .
Why was he thinking like this now ?
Here his father and the other great leaders of the Colonies were on the Atlantia working out a peace arrangement , and Zac was still hooping to become a great war hero .
Stomething askew in his thinking there .
He would have to talk it all out with Apollo later , when they got back to the battlestar and had their regular post-mission talk .
`` Well , kid , '' Apollo 's voice whispered softly in his ear .
`` We came to look .
Let 's get up closer . ''
`` Watch it , Apollo , '' Zac said , and was immediately astonished by his own uncharacteristic caution .
`` I 've got a funny feeling about this . ''
`` Funny feeling , eh ? ''
Apollo 's voice was now warmer , touched by a note of brotherly affection .
`` I always told Father you behaved more like a Scorpian , that you were n't a true Caprican . ''
`` Still , I have this funny feeling ... '' `` You 're not old enough to have funny feelings , warrior ! ''
Zac nodded even though Apollo could n't see him .
It was n't unusual fo rhim to have such an immediate physical reaction to a rebuke from his brother .
`` Anway , '' Apollo continued , `` while we 're stuck out here on patrol , Starbuck 's pulled a couple of those Gemonese into a hand of pyramid , and I want to get back before he cleans out those suckers . ''
Looking out his sideview , Zac watched Apollo 's Viper peel off in order to sweep around the ancient freighter .
Feeling very much like the younger brother he was , Zac set his flight pattern to follow , hitting at the course buttons angrily .
***** Commander Adama 's angular cheekbones seemed the work of a skilled diamond cutter .
But his cold , penetrating eyes could have have been designed by even the finest of artisans .
The members of his crew feared Adama as much as they loved him .
There was a popular superstition aboard the Galactica that , when the commander became angry , those powerful eyes retreated into his skull and gave off rays that made him look so inhuman he might just have materialized as a god from some new alien mythology .
Although tall and strong , he had none of the muscular man 's typical clumsiness in normal movement .
His gestures were smoothly graceful , and there was an ease in his bearing that made even his enemies comfortable with him -- -at least when he was comfortable with them .
He stood away from the others , his fellow leaders from the Quorum of the Twelve .
Their toasts to their new-found peace rang falsely in his ears .
In front of him , as if arranged for his own personal viewing , the millions of stars visible through the Atlantia 's starfield reminded him , as it reminded all contemplative men , of his own insignificance in this universe .
And , even more , of the smallness of the historic event being enacted behind him .
Men fought wars , cheered the coming of peace , then always seemed to locate another war to keep the peace from becoming too comforting .
This peace , in particular , disturbed him .
There was too much strain to the enthusiasm , too much simplicity in the negotiations .
He didn't like the fact that the absent Cylons were controlling the event like distant puppet masters -- -sending a human go-between and arranging the ultimate rendezvous for treaty signing at their own chosen coordinates in space .
President Arcon , looking very much like the wise man of tradition in his flowing toga , had called the settlement the most significant in human history .
The array of candelight on the banquet table , catching the blood-red jewels on his silver chalice , had lent a religious aura to the official toast .
And the subsequent unctuousness of Baltar 's response to the toast left a bad taste in Adama 's mouth .
Why had the Cylons used Baltar as their human messenger for this conference ?
Although a self-proclaimed count , Baltar was little better than a trader , a dealer in tylium , lithon and turbonite .
He was rich , yes , overwhelmingly so , but not a fit laison between the humans and the Cylons , not the proper carrier of sacred trusts .
Why send a corpulent merchant whose unhealthy skin suggested the tarnishing of coin when power-hungry diplomats were available ?
Who could ever known what went on in the alien mind ?
There might have been some reasoning among Cylons that led to the choice of the overweight , soft-looking trader .
And , besides , who was Adama to judge the facets of the peace ?
He 'd never known peace , he 'd geared his entire life to the fighting of the war .
He knew nothing , factually or philosophically , about peace .
Adama returned his attention to the celebration , which was in its final stage of formality .
Arcon embraced Baltar .
The trader 's ornate , colorful garments , especially the long , flowing velvet cape , made the president 's simple robes appear rustic .
The two men seemed alike only in the high boots each wore -- -a bizarre link , since Arcon 's boots clashed so strongly with the austere lines of his white silken toga .
When this tactic had been tried and failed several times , the Dictator of Khamsin authorised the use of Krillaz .
Thousands of rat-men were air-lifted onto Sirocco and left to do what they do best – killing and eating and breeding and killing and eating and breeding some more ...
When every hi-man being – man , woman , and child – on Sirocco had either fled or been eaten alive , Khamsin sprayed the island with virus .
Except it did n't work , did it ?
Sure , a few died , maybe less than 5 % , their corpses cannibalised by their fellows .
The rest carried on happily breeding like rats .
A healthy female Krilla can have three litters of six to eight pups a year .
So Khamsin 's scientists resprayed the island with a slightly different virus .
This time , less than 1 % were wiped out .
Realising they had won a pointless victory – Khamsin had beaten Sirocco but gained a useless island as a prize – they cut their losses and abandoned it to the Krillaz .
However , news of what had happened leaked out via the Galactoweb .
As well as interstellar condemnation and sanctions , hunters licked their lips and descended in droves on Hancox 1 .
There 's never been a closed season or weapons restrictions on Krillaz .
Just get yourself a permit and slaughter as many as you like .
However , even the most bloodthirsty hunter 's tally was useless – eradicating Krillaz is like trying to drain an ocean using a bucket .
All the hunters did was teach the Krillaz – being semi-intelligent , they are fast learners – to be wary of hi-mans and even more cunning than before .
Also , Krillaz , being hideously ugly , do n't make good trophies .
They 're not like the magnificent Yearn-horns on Gilead , Nov Austrasia 's Basilisks or Sopel 's Stripe-Strikers on Maguire 's World .
Individually , they 're not overly impressive .
But they do n't attack singly – they prefer swarms .
In their way , they are one of the more dangerous creatures in the known galaxy .
You might ask why I 'm going to this hell-hole .
Normally , I 've got too much respect for my hide to go messing with Krillaz .
Would n't want them within a million klicks .
Until I got a message over the Galactoweb that made me drop everything and hurry to Hancox 1 .
One of those messages that leave you no option , not if you value your reputation – and want to earn big money .
Using my cranial implant , I re-accessed the message , its words replaying on my retina .
I wo n't give you all its details – they do n't matter .
In a microlitre , my boss 's best-friend 's son had got himself into big trouble .
Again .
The lad was getting married to his second wife ( I think ) and decided to treat himself and his friends to a stag holiday hunting Krillaz .
No , I do n't get it neither .
You 're hitching yourself to the woman you love so you zoom off to some hell-hole planet to ingest booze and zap monsters .
I suppose it 's one last fling before domesticity .
Âgustin – that 's the foolish lad 's name – and his friends brought their armour and a whole arsenal of weaponry .
They hired some all terrain vehicles ; tough , reliable , go-anywhere machines and headed off to one of Sirocco 's ruined cities called Bas-Hinna .
They reached it – their GPS signals prove that – but then vanished from view .
Sarrah , Âgustin 's lovely fiancée , panicked and knowing my boss 's reputation for trouble-shooting asked him to investigate .
Always ready to help an old friend – especially when those friends are seriously wealthy oligarchs – my boss agreed .
So he charged as much as he thought the market could stand – which was a lot , I can tell you – and then fired off a message to his best ( ha-ha ) operative to look into Âgustin 's disappearance .
So here I am , Vic Vargo , doing my bit for interplanetary rescue .
However , as my boss was sticking it to them big-time , he passed me some of the cream .
One million Hydrans plus expenses if I rescued Âgustin or half a million for proof of his fate if dead .
Ca n't say fairer than that .
CHAPTER 2 : I LAND ON HANCOX 1 On the space shuttle 's screen I watched as Hancox 1 loomed closer .
In the distance , the small red dwarf shone its rays onto a dull , gunmetal coloured world .
Then we plunged through its thick , vapour filled atmosphere .
Rain washed over the shuttle 's portholes .
So I switched views and immediately a map of the world came into view .
Hancox 1 is slightly smaller than Earth – 11,000 kilometres in diameter , rather than Earth 's 12,700 – and somewhat less dense .
That pleased me as it meant my Earth-muscles would make me stronger and more powerful than back home .
It is mostly covered by water with eight smallish sub-continents and lots of little islands scattered over the ocean .
Sirocco lies just under the equator on the daylight side .
Nothing heads direct for Sirocco any more so the shuttle was heading for the city of Ul-Muglann on the nearby continent of Harmattan .
Searching the Galactoweb , I brought up some information .
The day-side continents are covered with a moss-like flora that grows to a height of half a metre or so .
Yes , I looked it up and the technical term for this stuff is bryophyte .
There was more but the shuttle juddered as it was buffeted by a storm .
The display blinked off to be replaced by a flashing warning and the shuttle pilot 's voice came over the intraweb system .
`` We are experiencing some turbulence at present .
Please do not be alarmed ... , '' that was one way to ensure panic , `` ... however , everything is under control and we expect to land at Ul-Muglann spaceport as usual .
Thank you . ''
I looked over at the man in the next seat .
With his hawk-like face and neatly trimmed beard , he looked like a local .
He did n't seem particularly worried so I put my fears to one side .
The shuttle dropped through thick clouds and then I saw the spaceport loom up through my porthole .
Lights gleamed and reflected from the rain-washed sky .
The spaceport was on the edge of the continent and in the distance I saw Ul-Muglann itself beyond its boundaries .
None too soon , the shuttle touched down and came to a halt by the terminal .
Moving forwards , I joined the queue for customs clearance .
`` What is the reason for your visit ? ''
the official asked in that neutral yet hostile tone they always use .
I showed him my hunting certificate and the list of equipment I was bringing in .
He stamped my e-Passport with more vigour than was necessary .
`` Good hunting , dost – I hate Krillaz .
My family had to flee Sirocco when they came . ''
`` I 'll bag some for you . ''
He grinned through his beard , friendlier now , and waved me through .
I 'd already arranged accommodation and transport and an automated ground-taxi whizzed me through wide streets flanked by low , white-grey buildings to my Hotel .
The room was warm and comfortable , although bland – I could have upgraded to five-star but I do n't feel comfortable with too much luxury – however , Âgustin 's family were wealthy so I was n't going to short myself neither .
Now I was planetside , I double-checked my plans .
Tomorrow , I would be meeting a group of fellow hunters – only a fool goes after Krillaz by themselves .
As one ruined city is as good as another , they happily agreed to go to Bas-Hinna with me .
Also , like me , they did n't feel happy about leaving somebody trapped , surrounded by Krillaz .
I crossed to the view-screen window and looked out over Ul-Muglann .
It was a depressing sight .
Although the downfall was n't as severe as before , the constant gales of this tide-locked world buffeted rain against the window .
Up above , the sun was a dim red blur in the clouds , casting its diffuse rays over the drab city .
Ugh .
Picking up the console , I scrolled through the views until it seemed I was in a beach front apartment overlooking a beautiful coral atoll on some paradise world – Merciall , I guessed it to be .
The beautiful people who live there walked on pink sands under the light of twin suns .
Perfect , I thought , as I lay down , switched off my neural implant and relaxed .
*** The following morning – though there 's no such thing as a true morning on this world , of course – I caught the local shuttle to Sirocco .
There were n't many passengers and most of them looked like hunters .
The craft flew over storm-tossed seas .
If you 're interested , there 's not much marine life on Hancox 1 – things similar to giant sea-slugs and slime-fish but that 's about it .
Two hours later , the shuttle landed on the only part of Sirocco not infested with Krillaz .
One narrow , rocky peninsula had been cleared of them and a fence sealed it off from the rest of the sub-continent .
There was a landing field next to a small town .
Nearly everyone there was in the military or else made a living by servicing hunters .
Her face was downcast and appropriately sober for Karen’s benefit , but her blue eyes stared boldly at Ryhs between long strands of blonde hair .
She absentmindedly pulled the hair from her eyes and admired her newly-manicured nails which sparkled with the newest nail art .
“I just found out an hour ago , Ryhs , ” she said , turning a sorrowful face to Karen .
“Right before work was over .
Karen , I so appreciate your kind offer .
I just can’t thank you enough.” Karen hugged Lauren , and Brittney screamed in protest of being bumped into a stranger .
Ryhs turned around and rolled his eyes , infuriated .
He knew exactly what was going on here , but there was no way he could tell his wife .
Not now , after so much time had passed .
A month ago , Ryhs had stopped by his wife’s office , used the men’s room , and before he could leave , Lauren Bowers had barged through the door .
She threw herself at him , audaciously reached for his manhood , and impudently begged him with her eyes to respond .
At first , Ryhs had tried to gently extricate himself , trying to find the right words to say .
All he could think of at that moment was that his wife was down the hall waiting for him .
Lauren was Karen’s co-worker .
But more than that , Lauren was also her boss .
If Ryhs wasn’t careful , the self-assured and overly-confident Lauren would make Karen pay for his rebuff .
Ryhs also knew that Lauren had just divorced her third husband .
No surprise there .
It was obvious she could get a man , but just as obvious she couldn’t keep one .
Lauren was still young : thirty-five years old , tall , and fashionably thin .
She was beautiful , actually .
But Ryhs did not find her attractive .
She was superficial and mean-spirited .
But more important , he loved his wife more than he loved himself .
He loved his little girl and the life they all shared together .
Some of his friends would have jumped at the chance to be with Lauren .
But he wasn’t one of them and he never would be .
When Lauren had grabbed Ryhs , his body had automatically started to respond to her groping fingers , but just as suddenly it had stopped .
Anger overcame him but he carefully pulled away .
“Thank you , but no thank you , ” he had said , looking her in the eye .
“You’re my wife’s boss , and she thinks you’re a friend .
I’ll pretend this never happened.” Ryhs Finley glanced at his image in the mirror before leaving the bathroom .
For some reason , he almost felt guilty , though common sense told him he had no reason to be .
His blue-gray eyes looked smoky , his jaw set .
He tried to relax , and he brushed a hand through his dark brown hair .
He shook his wide shoulders as if shaking off a chill , and he left the bathroom , careful to ignore a fuming Lauren .
Ryhs sat down in front of Karen’s desk and tried to relax , his emotions conflicted .
He wanted to tell her what had just happened , but now was not the time .
Suddenly Lauren was standing beside him , telling him how lucky he was to have Karen for a wife .
She was a wonderful employee , but more than that , a good and trusted friend .
“I hope you treat her right , Ryhs , ” she said .
“I’m sure you will .
Or do , I mean.” She laughed lightly .
“Because if you don’t , I know a very handsome man who would just love to find her available.” Karen looked puzzled , as if unsure how to interpret Lauren’s words .
Ryhs watched Karen .
He knew she wasn’t the most worldly person , even a little naive , and totally unlike Lauren .
But Karen did think of Lauren as a friend , and the way she looked from Lauren to Ryhs , she seemed to be thinking that Lauren was flirting in a roundabout way with Ryhs .
Or , perhaps , a thinly-veiled threat ?
Ryhs wasn’t sure how Karen was taking this .
He was about to confront Lauren but he knew it could backfire on him .
The idea of what Lauren had just done in the bathroom seemed ludicrous .
Karen might not believe him .
And so he chose to overlook it .
It probably would never happen again anyway .
And hopefully , Karen would find another job which would solve the problem completely .
In the end , he chose to remain silent for fear there would be the slightest doubt in Karen’s mind .
He didn’t think he could stand to have her look at him with suspicion .
“Ryhs ? ” Karen asked him now .
“Helloooo .
Ryhs ?
You there ? ” Karen laughed , a bit nervously .
It was obvious she wanted to help Lauren , yet she did not want to upset Ryhs .
“Lauren’s mom lives on the west side of Appleton .
We can just get off the freeway , drive a few minutes , and be there .
Then we can be back on our way to Milwaukee .
That okay , hon ? ” Ryhs bit the bullet and smiled .
“Sure .
No problem.” Two hours later with yet another hour to get to Appleton , Lauren revealed the real reason she wanted to be with the Finleys .
Sitting in the back seat behind Karen , she casually reached over and stroked Brittney’s hair .
“Such a beautiful child you two have .
Did you know your little baby girl will soon have her very own half-brother or sister ?
I simply can’t wait.” “What ? ” Karen said .
Her forehead wrinkled in confusion .
“You’re pregnant ?
Your baby will be Brittney’s half-sister or brother ? ” Karen looked at Ryhs , then turned and confronted Lauren .
“What the hell are you talking about ? ” Ryhs stared in the rear-view mirror and watched Lauren become an actress worthy of an Oscar .
Incredulity made him pause in disbelief .
“I’m sorry , Karen , ” Lauren said , her voice steeped with concern .
“I really didn’t want you to find out like this .
But honestly , you need to know what your handsome husband has been up to .
I , frankly , never thought he would do something like that .
I mean , to take advantage of me when I had a bit too much to drink , vulnerable over losing my husband.” “Which one , Lauren ? ” Karen asked , her voice testy with anger .
Anger , Ryhs could see , that was directed at both of them .
“Oh .
Dean .
The last one , of course .
But then , I don’t think Ryhs here cared if it was my first or third .
He had to have his way with me .
And now , my life is a mess .
I don’t know what I’ll do .
I’m not the mothering kind.” She sniffed and looked out the window , taking the opportunity of shocked silence to say , “I really hope you don’t hate me , Karen .
I did everything I could to keep him off me .
But I was so drunk…” Ryhs stomped on the brakes and pulled over to the side of the road .
“You’re a liar , ” he shouted .
“This whole thing is a sham .
You came on to me .
`` Your role model , '' his friend said , with a large grin , hitting his arm with a heavy solid slap , `` and do n't you forget it . ''
The blond slapped him back harder , which sent his friend bumping into Pete , who gripped the bar to avoid toppling off his stool , and spilled his beer .
Bosky reached for a bar towel and mopped up the spill .
Pete laughed .
`` Hey ! ''
the friend said , `` easy now .
We 're in somebody else 's home .
We have to behave and show our good upbringing . ''
The blond gave him a friendly slap on the back .
`` Right you are , Chucky old boy .
Hey , you okay , Pop ? ''
Pete nodded with his toothless grin and raised a hand to show that no harm had been done .
`` Good for you , pop .
Bosky , get pop here a drink on me .
No wait .
Get him a drink on Chucky .
And let 's see , what do I want ? ''
`` You want another shot ? ''
the blond asked .
`` Did n't we just have one ? ''
Chucky said .
`` You just had one , Vic , '' one of their female companions , a red head , said across the room , with a tone that possessed some impatience , and a degree of long suffering familiarity .
Chucky stifled an inebriated laugh .
`` I guess we just had one . ''
Vic nodded .
`` So we did . ''
He turned to Bosky .
`` Bosky , let 's have two more beers , and two more tequilas . ''
Chucky laughed again .
Bosky nodded , irritated that this young stranger punk was calling him by name , but he disguised his feeling and got the drinks .
`` Hey , you guys want something ? ''
Vic asked his companions against the wall .
They all shook their heads .
They were almost finished with their drinks , and were getting impatient to leave .
Vic grabbed Chucky 's shoulder , and put some quarters in his hand .
`` Here , find out what they want , and go feed the juke box .
This is a party , not a funeral . ''
`` You got it , '' Chucky said .
Bosky returned with the drinks , and George Jones began to sing `` The Race Is On . ''
Vic thanked him and paid him with Chucky 's money , and tipped him five dollars , apologizing for their outburst .
Bosky was visibly surprised , but took the money and was satisfied .
Well , he thought , maybe he ai n't such a bad kid after all ... just young , I suppose .
Vic looked down the bar to catch another glance at the beautiful woman down there , talking to some old guy .
Goddam , he thought , she is one fine looking woman ; if she do n't have a body to beat the band I 'll eat my glass .
As if in answer to his thoughts , she turned to look at him , and he was transfixed for a moment by her eyes .
They were right on him , staring into his own , drawing a bead on him in some way .
Her expression was distant , but seemed curious , and definitely not disinterested .
Vic smiled at her , his most practiced subtle introductory grin that he had used many times before , and which seldom failed to draw a response .
It did not fail now either .
She gave him a quick half smile in response , tilting her head back slightly in an expression of curiosity and permissiveness , and went back to sipping her beer .
Vic sucked in a silent slow breath , and felt a stirring in his loins .
His dick was getting hard .
Oh Lord , have mercy on me , he thought , downing half his beer , and keeping his eyes on her for a few more moments .
Time for step two .
Chucky came back .
`` Okay , my man , we got tunes , we got booze , and we got time .
The folks are having another round , and if we do n't want them to leave , we better go and join them and liven this party up . ''
He said this last in a lower , more confidential tone .
Vic put a hand on his shoulder and said `` Right you are , Chucky .
Order another round , and let 's go rejoin our friends .
Only ... I 'll be there in a few minutes . ''
`` What ? ''
Chucky said , `` what 's goin ' on ? ''
His words were a bit slurred , and he was weaving slightly as he leaned in closer .
`` You noticed the beautiful babe down at the end of the bar , no doubt ? ''
Chucky glanced at her , and smiled approvingly .
`` Who has n't ? ''
Vic took a pinch of salt and raised his shot of tequila .
`` Well , my man , she just gave me a look that said Come On Down !
and I am about to go find out who she is . ''
Chucky took another look at her , then giggled maliciously .
`` I admire your spunk , my friend .
But you-know-who is not going to be too happy about it . ''
`` Hey , what 're you talkin ' about ?
Me and Gail came up here as friends , to ski , remember ?
We do n't even date . ''
Chucky suppressed a laugh as best he could .
`` You screwed her twice .
Whatta you call that ? ''
Vic smiled with tired patience , as if they had discussed this too many times before .
`` Chucky , lem me explain something to you .
Dating is when you go out and do the town . ''
`` Yeah ? ... ''
Vic raised his glass a little higher , and lowered his voice .
`` Screwing is when you stay in , and go to town . ''
Chucky burst out with a raucous laugh , and Vic joined in .
Chucky raised his glass .
`` Viva la difference ! ''
`` Viva la difference ! ''
They drank , then bit into lime slices as if finalizing a pact between them , and Vic called Bosky over .
Angie was about finished with her beer when Bosky came up to her , with a fresh draft in hand .
`` Fella would like to buy you a drink , Angie , and a shot if you want one . ''
He stood there waiting as if he were reluctant to set the drink down .
With no further word nor glance from him , she knew who was buying the drink .
She turned her head toward Vic , and saw him giving her the same friendly interested smile he had shown before .
She regarded him non-commitally , considering him , and turned back to Bosky .
`` If you do n't want it , '' he said , `` I can give it to Pete . ''
She shook her head .
`` Tell him thanks .
I heard her loud shoes clomp down the hall , and then they stopped right outside my door .
She threw open my bedroom door and ran in saying “Hi Moogie ! ” I was then trapped in a bone-crushing hug .
She let me go and stared at my forehead “You have a giant zit on your face.” With my personal space violated and my face insulted I jumped up and shoved her out of my room .
She shoved me back and ran away to the kitchen before I could retaliate .
I went to the bathroom to gather my hair brush and tooth brush for the trip .
I checked myself in the mirror and noticed I did have a gigantic red zit right in the middle of my forehead .
For around five minutes I tried popping that zit .
I usually don’t have zits on my pale white face , but when I do they really stick out ; they don’t even look like my freckles !
My waist length golden blonde hair doesn’t cover up any of the zits either .
Maybe if I had bangs they would cover them up .
It was sixish when my parents arrived home .
My sister had her suitcase packed and she was in the car twenty minutes before we were going to leave .
After five minutes she returned to the living room bored from sitting in the car alone .
I went back to my room and checked to see if I forgot anything , nope .
Everybody was already in the car when I got in .
My sister was bouncing off the walls happy .
Lilie had laid her head on my lap and I noticed something green sticking out of her mouth .
I grabbed it and realized it was the limb of one of my sister’s dolls .
Lilie snatched it back and it disappeared in her mouth .
Mommy drove everybody down the freeway until Dad realized they needed to go to his office to pick something up .
My dad and mom work as scientists doing DNA stuff for a private company .
Honestly , that’s all I really know .
The office is pretty far away , and in the middle of the desert .
There aren’t any offices near it .
When we got there I needed to use the restroom , so I entered the office with Dad .
The place has a small waiting room .
There was a desk in the middle and a woman in a lab coat sitting behind it .
The room had plain checkered tile with cream colored wall paper .
Behind the desk the room split into two halls , I went down the left while Dad went down the right .
Before I took any steps though , the lady , which I remembered her as some sort of assistant for my dad caught me and said , “Hello again !
I haven’t seen you in so long ! ” I turned to look at her .
She was very plain , just like the rest of the room .
A cordate face , brown eyes , and she had her brown hair tied up in a lose bun .
I smiled and nodded , I didn’t know what to say , I didn’t even remember her name .
So I smiled some more and said I needed to run to the bathroom .
She said we would talk afterwards .
The restroom was pretty boring , three stalls and sinks that were a little too short .
I need to find something to talk about too , or I’ll look like an idiot in front of her .
If only my sister could come in to save the day .
Once she starts talking she doesn’t stop .
I spent a while looking in the scratched up mirror trying to find any zits I hadn’t popped yet .
My sister is probably dying of boredom right now ; she hates it when I take my time .
Maybe I should take a little longer .
I stood staring at my reflection .
I’m definitely not grown up , my face is too young , and I’m short and under developed .
I wish I was a little taller ; some kids in my seventh grade class can already pass as twenty-year-olds .
My eyes do n't seem to have a specific color , sometimes greenish blue , other times bluish green , I could n't tell what they were today , they just seemed dark .
When I finally finished , I reached for the door handle , then stopped .
Sharp , screeching sounds pierced my ears from outside the door .
What was that ?
I pressed my ear against the door .
Is that high pitched singing ?
I opened the door a crack ; a tall man with wild black hair in ripped clothing was holding the assistant against the wall .
The man with the wild black hair was saying “You left the cage open ! ” Or something like that , and laughed at her .
The assistant was sobbing hysterically .
Where did he come from ?
Behind them was a girl with lava red hair who looked around fifteen or sixteen , she was the one singing and she twirled in a smock like from the doctor 's office .
“P-please don’t .
I-I” He shushed her lightly and put her down , he smiled fondly at her , and I let out the breath I realized I was holding .
He looked kind of scary for a moment .
The redheaded girl stopped singing and snickered .
And the tall man grabbed the bun of her hair and pulled it back .
The girl started singing again and the assistant screamed .
The lyrics of the girl’s song finally processed in my brain , “Kill !
Kill !
Kill !
The stupid human !
Kill !
Kill !
Kill !
So we can escape !
Come on Ja-Ja-Jonathan , Kill !
Kill !
Kill ! ” I blinked , and the assistant was on the floor .
The man , Jonathan had nearly ripped her throat out of her neck .
Blood poured out onto the checkered tile and dripped off his face .
I trembled , my head was in a daze , everything suddenly got slower .
She’s dead , she’s dead .
It did n't exactly cook in my mind .
I bit my lip to hold back a scream ; what if he sees me ?
Where’s Dad ?
I need to get out of here .
The man named Jonathan smiled brighter at the body .
The girl started skipping around the room , “Jonathan killed EVERYBODY , YAY ! ” Jonathan turned to the girl slightly irritated , “Twenty years with you , Marit , and you are still annoying.” The girl-Marit smiled sweetly and said “But you love me .
And we’ll always win together.” They turned to leave , and he looked down at Marit and affectionately pet her hair .
His dark grin baring yellowed teeth stained my mind .
“Let’s go home.” I stood frozen , petrified he would return for me .
He just killed her with his teeth !
What if he’s still outside ?
My knees grew weak and I dropped to the floor .
I held my breath and scooted backwards behind the trash can .
I clasped my hands around my ears , I pulled my legs in and closed my eyes , focusing on the blackness .
Outside I could hear sounds , first a shrill scream , my dog barking and then her sharp yelp .
Two screams now , one choked up and then silence .
I held my breath and pressed my hands harder to my ears .
`` Help . ''
I whispered in my mind , I shook my head and pressed my face into my knees .
I curled up for several long moments after that , trying to quiet my breaths as much as I could , trying to make myself silent .
The moment came when I was sure they left , I gradually crawled out of my hiding place behind the trash can , and still on my hands and knees I pushed the door open with one hand .
A stream of blood advanced and touched my other hand , I flinched and pulled away , but I lost my balance and my elbow splashed in the fresh blood as I tried to catch myself .
'I 'm sorry , the wife of the guy you bought the hotel from , killed herself there ?
And you still bought it ? '
'We did n't know that at the time , ' said Mrs Stokes .
'But yes , that 's what happened . '
'The seller did n't mention it ? '
asked Jenny .
Mrs Stokes shook her head .
'Though to be honest , we never spoke to him , everything was done through the estate agent .
Mr Dunbar had already gone back to Scotland . '
'Mr Dunbar was the pervious owner ? '
'The estate agent said that he had health problems , ' said Mr Stokes .
'Now of course we realise it was just a way of keeping him away from us . '
Nightingale nodded .
`` I 'm not a legal expert , but should n't your surveyor have picked up on something like this ?
Due diligence or whatever they call it .
You made an investment on the back of a surveyor 's report , presumably ? '
'The building is fine , ' said Mr Stokes .
'It 's a hundred years old and will stand for at least another hundred .
The roof is fine , there 's no damp , the electrics and the plumbing were overhauled five years ago . '
'Do n't sellers have to tell you about any negative aspects ? '
said Jenny .
'Things like noisy neighbours and dry rot . '
'Apparently suicides are n't covered , ' said Mrs Stokes .
'That 's what our solicitor tells us . '
'But you looked at the books , surely ? '
said Jenny , her pen poised over her notepad .
'Did n't they let you know that something was wrong ? '
The couple exchanged a look and Mr Stokes flinched even before his wife spoke .
'I told you we should have done that , did n't I ? '
she said .
Mr Stokes threw up his hands .
'We were buying the building .
The building is fine .
I just assumed that the hotel would have guests .
That 's what hotels do , right ? '
He looked pleadingly at Nightingale as if he was begging him to agree with him .
'I guess so , ' said Nightingale .
'Well guessing is n't good enough , ' said Mrs Stokes .
'We have n't had a single booking since the website piece .
And it turns out that the hotel had been doing badly long before we bought it . '
'So the seller knew there was a problem ? '
said Jenny .
'Does n't that mean he conned you ? '
Mrs Stokes shook her head .
'He never actually lied to us , ' she said .
'And we did n't ask the right questions . '
She flashed her husband a withering look leaving them in no doubt that by 'we ' she meant him .
'When we looked around there were people in the restaurant so we assumed they were guests , ' said Mr Stokes .
'And he said that we could n't see several of the rooms because they were occupied . '
He held up his hands again .
'With hindsight , I screwed up . '
'And the hotel has always been losing money ? '
asked Nightingale .
'I think things got worse about six months ago , ' said Mr Stokes .
'About the time that Mr Dunbar put it up for sale , ' said Mrs Stokes , glaring at her husband .
Before Mr Stokes could respond , Nightingale raised a hand , hoping to cut short any argument .
'So what exactly is it you want me to do ? '
he asked .
'First of all , get the website to take down its comments , ' said Mr Stokes .
'We 've tried emailing the website but no one will reply . '
'Have you tried setting a lawyer on them ? '
asked Jenny .
'If the website is libelling your hotel , you could sue them . '
'We spoke to our solicitor , ' said Mrs Stokes .
'He says that we have to prove it 's not true .
But how do we prove there is n't a vampire in the hotel ?
It 's ridiculous .
But it 's there on this bloody website for everyone to see . '
'Have you talked to the police ? '
'About what ? '
asked Mr Stokes .
'To confirm that there have actually been deaths at the hotel .
And that they were simple suicides . '
'They say that suicide is n't a crime so they are not bound to tell us if there have been suicides at the hotel , ' said Mr Stokes .
'Here 's what we need , Mr Nightingale .
We need you to find out if it 's true that there have been a spate of suicides at The Weeping Willow .
If so , we need to know what we should do to put a stop to it .
And we need you to get this website to take down the rubbish that 's there .
Can you do that ? '
Nightingale smiled and nodded confidently .
'I do n't see why not , ' he said .
* * * Detective Sergeant James Gracie was a dour Scotsman in his fifties with a greying beard and a bored expression that suggested there were a dozen things he 'd rather be doing than standing in a bar with Nightingale .
They were in a small pub a short walk from the John Street police station in Brighton .
It was lunchtime , the only time that Gracie said that he had time to spare .
The price of the meeting was fair enough - a double whisky and a ham sandwich , which Nightingale had ordered along with a bottle of Corona and a sausage roll for himself .
'I really appreciate this , ' said Nightingale as they carried their food and drinks over to a corner table by a fruit machine .
Gracie shrugged .
'Colin Duggan vouched for you , grumpy old bastard that he is .
Not sure how much I can tell you , though . '
He sat down and looked at his watch .
'I 've got to be back in the factory by one .
Health and safety briefing followed by a diversity awareness survey .
It 's all go in the modern world of policing . '
'How long have you been in the job ? '
asked Nightingale .
'Coming up for thirty years , ' said Gracie .
'Retirement beckons . '
'Got any plans ? '
'I 'm not going to be a private eye , that 's for sure , ' said the detective .
He sipped his whisky .
He rolled his chair to the screen door and looked out .
Yes , it was that deadbeat .
The tenant was walking around the corner of the house .
Costas pushed the screen door open and shouted to him .
“When are you going to pay the rent ? ” The man stopped when he heard Costas .
“Oh Christ , it’s you , ” he said .
He threw his cigarette to the ground , as though in response to the question and ground it under his toe .
There was a six pack in his other hand and he pulled a beer from it .
“Well ?
When are you going to pay ? ” Costas barked again .
“You’re two months late .
I don’t know any landlord that would carry you this long.” “I’ve been busy.” The man twisted the cap from the bottle with his teeth and spit it onto the walk near the cigarette butt .
“Busy my ass , you don’t have a job .
I never see you go to work in the morning .
It’s no surprise you don’t have the money.” “I told you when I moved in , I’m self employed .
I make my own hours.” He turned and started to walk away .
Costas called after him .
“If you don’t pay today , you’ll be evicted by the end of the week.” “Evict this , ” the tenant said , raising his six pack hand along with his middle finger .
He continued on up the outside stairway .
“I mean it , ” Costas yelled .
He heard the man say something about an asshole .
Costas let the screen door slam shut .
That went well .
The guy would pay his rent now for sure .
Costas wondered why he had even taken the guy in .
Yes , it was all about giving .
Everyone looks like a victim when you see them from a wheelchair .
The guy came to his door with a story ; new in town from Maine , getting his business set up .
He never would have let the guy in before the accident , before his legs were ruined .
But three months ago , when the man came knocking on his door , Costas had been at a low point .
He missed Helena , he was feeling sorry for himself , useless legs , all alone .
He had to help someone in order to feel good about himself – weakness .
Now he felt like an idiot .
Maybe his tenant had problems , but Costas didn’t want them spilling over into his own life .
That’s a great way to get pulled down .
He thought about his low point back then and wondered if he had come very far out of it .
It didn’t seem so .
He rolled his wheelchair to the far wall and looked at a picture of his late wife .
There was dust on it .
Helena had dusted every week .
He took the picture down and wiped it with his hands .
He meant to put it right back up , but found himself peering at it instead .
He couldn’t shake the feeling that she might walk in from the next room any minute and start bustling about , cooking and cleaning , keeping the house ready for company .
She had loved having company over ; one thing he never did well with .
He wished he had been better at it for her , but she loved him anyway .
Sadness welled up .
He fought it back and hung the picture on the wall .
The last thing he needed was to fall to pieces .
Sadness was like water sucking down a drain - once you got close to the whirlpool , you spiraled in .
He didn’t need to be wallowing in self pity when the new tenant showed up .
Costas looked at the clock on the wall .
The guy was late .
That was a good way to make an impression .
A guy who showed up late would probably pay late just like the deadbeat tenant he had now .
Costas glanced back at the picture and then rolled away from it .
He and Helena had been happy together .
Living with her was like curling up in a warm blanket .
Saturday morning was French toast and bacon and then a trip to the bank .
Sometimes it was pancakes and eggs , but on that morning , it had been French toast .
And they always went to the bank .
They could have used an ATM and done their banking anytime , but they liked getting out with people .
Sometimes they ran into friends .
That morning Sol Costas had started the cooking , but Helena shooed him away to his newspaper .
She hardly touched her own food and when he asked why , she said she wasn’t feeling well .
“You should have let me cook , ” Sol told her .
“No , no - I feel better when I move around a bit.” “Do you feel any better now ? ” “Better than I did , ” she said , nibbling on a piece of toast .
Sol didn’t believe her .
“Why don’t you stay home and rest , while I go to the bank ? ” “I’ll be fine .
I didn’t get a good night’s sleep , that’s all.” She insisted on driving .
She usually drove on Saturday mornings and Sol didn’t stop her that morning .
It was the biggest mistake of his life .
He remembered the accident , or the stroke – whichever you wanted to call it .
It was both .
They had been driving back from the bank , coming up to an intersection , when Solero realized something was wrong .
Helena wasn’t slowing down for the light .
He glanced over and saw the look on her face ; eyes wide , head tilted back , staring up at the sun visor , only she wasn’t seeing it , she was looking a thousand miles beyond .
Her mouth was open as if to exclaim ‘oh ! ’ .
“Helena – what’s wrong ? ” he yelled , reaching for her and the wheel at the same time .
He knew at a glance that her mind was far away as they rolled into the intersection .
He jerked the wheel , as if it would do some good .
It didn’t .
The truck slammed into the side of their car , rolling it over several times before Sol blacked out .
When he came to , his body was pinned by twisted metal , Helena’s limp body pressed against him .
Even in his disoriented state , he knew she was gone .
Her ribcage , he was told later , had been crushed by the impact .
The stroke had started it , the accident finished it .
Now , at the age of eighty one , he was not only alone , but he had to learn how to take care of his crippled body .
2 Tom Brooks braked and shifted his Celica to neutral .
Traffic was backed up onto the bridge and his car was stopped close to the middle of the span .
He unclenched his hand from the wheel , forcing himself to relax back in his seat .
Only a few weeks ago he’d had the power to move this traffic out with a few barked orders .
Paradise lost .
Now he was just another civilian .
The steel deck of the bridge vibrated and swayed under him as cars rolled by in the other direction .
It gave him an ungrounded feeling .
He looked out the window .
The bridge deck was built of steel mesh , unpaved , and he could see down through it to the river rapids below .
Kayakers paddled , negotiating a course between gates .
One of the kayakers slid into white water and the boat flipped .
The craft was swept downstream with the paddler underneath .
`` No , nothing more horrible on this side of the grave .
But on the other side… '' He pointed to a small wet lump of brown hair with white eyes .
I could smell it rotting .
`` Just look at that rat there , '' he said .
`` The perfect vessel . ''
He patted it like a pet .
I swallowed deeply .
His madness was compelling .
I wanted to leave at that moment .
There was nothing I wanted more .
But I had to watch .
`` I 'll play its dreams for you , '' he said .
And then he closed his eyes and stopped breathing .
At first I wondered if he was dead , and I was n't sure if I should try to do something or just make an anonymous call from the nearest pay phone .
But then he took one deep breath that shook his body .
It was as if he was drawing water from a very deep well .
And when his eyes opened again they seemed to shimmer with starlight .
I peered a little closer .
The light was not his own .
His eyes reflected the sky of early evening like two pools of clear water .
But underneath that , they were all but empty .
They had turned into rat 's eyes- and the rat was now moving .
It got two legs underneath it like a drunk standing up .
The bottom half of its body was trying to help .
Maggots poured out of a wound in its belly .
The body fell apart .
Both halves collapsed to the pavement again , now all but separated .
Gravity had defeated its strange ambition .
The creature 's legs churned at the air .
It knew nothing about hopelessness .
As long as it was under this compulsion it would go on trying to stand .
The necromancer was laughing .
`` Do you see what I mean ? ''
he said .
`` It is strictly for amusement .
But it 's a gallows humor , I 'm aware of that .
The kind very few could stomach . ''
`` I did n't think it was funny . ''
`` So very sensitive .
Such scruples . ''
He laughed again .
I turned away as if to leave .
But the sight of it held me .
Once the command was set in motion , it seemed that contact was not required .
The necromancer was no longer in the trance , but the rat still moved .
And the poor creature 's tormentor had not finished with his lecture .
`` You understand now why the Haitians do not fear the zombi .
They fear becoming a zombi .
And that 's the real horror , is n't it ?
To be a dead thing , and yet compelled .
To have earned your rotten little rest , and still be forced to toil .
And after all , what would the dead even do if they awoke from their sleep ?
Decayed hands would n't have the strength to dig through six feet of earth .
They 'd be trapped down there .
Trapped like rats . ''
He giggled at that .
`` So they would n't eat our brains ? ''
I laughed .
Weak humor to hide my fear .
`` No .
What would they want with them ?
They would do nothing at all .
That 's the one bit of wisdom I gleaned from your precious grimoires .
Death is the only condition more powerless than life . ''
He stood up suddenly , and things fell from him .
Dust , fragments of brittle old leaves .
Other things that squirmed as they fell .
`` Come with me .
I 'll show you . ''
`` I 'm not going anywhere with you . ''
He came in at me suddenly .
I had no time to protect myself .
Before I could even put my hands up , he was as close as a lover , grinning his idiotic , knowing grin ; his breath smelling of turpentine .
He gripped my tweed jacket and hissed at me , as if he had been to my lecture .
`` This is not an archetype , '' he whispered .
`` This is not a reality either .
It is not a mere construct , it is not a concept , but it is not just the truth .
These things are mysteries . ''
He let me go , and I followed him .
I had found no mysteries in academia .
We crept surreptitiously through the growing darkness of the city , as if this was how he always traveled , so as never to be seen .
From one pool of shadow to another , from one corner to the next .
If our city had been at war we would have been safe from any sniper .
It was a slow way to get from one place to another , but it revealed subtleties I had never had the time or inclination to notice in the past .
Light splashed across dark pavement like oceans or galaxies .
Alleys that faded out into who-knows-what , and strange shapes just past visible , crouching in the dimness .
Children with pale , smudge-streaked skin and huge , staring eyes , peeking out from the corners of buildings and then disappearing .
All the weird beauties of a place that was dying ; Baudelaire 's flowers of evil blooming secretly in the unseen corners .
And then the cemetery .
It was like another city .
If ghouls existed outside the realm of nightmares , they would have felt at home there , haunting that broken necropolis .
Our city had been prosperous once , or so everyone assured me .
Once upon a time , a long time ago , before the mills went away .
Those early prosperous families left their mark upon the cemetery .
Grotesque and romantic carvings sprouted like tumors from old shattered mausoleums .
Here there was a knight with a sword , there an angel with a book .
And everywhere graffiti .
One tag said Asian Disciples .
Another , strangely , said John the Baptist .
Something moved .
Its chuckles at my horrified expression when I realised that it had tricked me , deepened in timbre until I felt them rather than heard them .
It moved to the bedside as , what I can only describe as smoke , rose from Natalie 's open mouth .
It closed its eyes and inhaled the essence of her life force with a moan of unadulterated pleasure .
Curiosity got the better of me and I could n't help myself , I needed to get a closer look .
The creature grabbed me by the back of my neck and held me so my face hovered over Natalie 's .
I refused to inhale - I did n't need to breathe after all - but when its claws jabbed into my lower jaw , the pain made me gasp .
One taste of the sweet nectar was all I needed .
I inhaled deeply .
The first thing I felt was warmth spreading in tendrils from my chest out to my limbs .
It was a similar sensation to the one I had when Bill walked through me , yet at the same time it felt different , it made me feel alive .
I , too , moaned as sensation after sensation flooded my nervous system ; every pleasure point titillated and teased to ecstasy .
The creature flung me away much too soon .
Once it had finished breathing her in , it turned to me with a satisfied smile .
There were no flames to accompany its sigh of relief , nor did its eyes glow the way they had ; they looked more glazed as if the creature were high .
Sharp , yellowed claws held my jaw in a vice like grip .
`` Exhale , '' it demanded .
As I did as it instructed , it placed its mouth over mine and took the warmth from me in a kiss .
A kiss of death .
`` Our deal , '' it said , `` is cemented .
You may give one essence to your daughter a week , but only after you give me three .
Her illness will not return as long as you feed her life from your breath . ''
With my agreement to its terms , my choice of target was no longer limited to people the creature wanted , I was allowed to choose mine for myself ; for my daughter .
I did n't think about the names on the creature 's list as people , more as a means to an end .
No longer did I consider who they were or what impact their death would have on others around them .
I took their lives and fed the demon their souls .
My choices were a different matter .
I discovered early on in my new career that the souls of bad people - murders , rapists , child molesters - were tainted with darkness .
A bitter aftertaste , laced with violence , as it entered my being .
It appeared to affect Sophie 's emotions too and she became irritable at the drop of a hat .
The day the new kitten reappeared with a broken neck was the day I realized how badly tarnished her own soul had become .
That was when my targets changed .
Instead of the killer , I stole life from the victims .
I sought out the evangelists and God-fearing people .
In the dead of night , I 'd stalk the streets and deprive the homeless of their warmth ; drunken revellers would lose their footing and fall from high places ; businessmen would suffer heart attacks ; drug addicts would overdose ; firemen would get trapped in burning buildings and soldiers would step on land mines .
I watch her sleep , my little love , her arm curled around our dog in an embrace I wish she could share with me .
The veil between our realms will not permit it , nor will it allow her to see me .
Perhaps that 's a blessing for I am no longer the man she once called Dad .
I am a killer of the innocent , a gatherer of souls and determined to give nothing but the best to my daughter .
Sometimes , we must do terrible things in the name of love .
Back to start A Song for the Ferryman They fear me , fear my kind ; I guess they have good reason .
Do n't get me wrong , it has nothing to do with how we look .
The idea that we 're ugly as sin with pallid skin and rotten teeth is a rather insulting misconception .
I 've been told that I 'm very pretty and have always had plenty of male attention .
No , if we could be distinguished by our everyday appearance , I fear they would find a way to end our existence .
It has been the way of man to destroy the things that he does not understand , or those things he fears , since the very beginning .
I clearly remember the first time my song was torn from me .
It was the day after my eighteenth birthday .
I was standing in a queue at the supermarket and the guy in front had just set his basket on the conveyer belt .
He turned his head and smiled flirtatiously at the girl working the till , but there was something strange about his eyes ; they looked dull and empty .
I think the term lifeless best describes how they were .
What sounded like a beautiful melody to my ears was nothing short of an ear-splitting screech to those who stood nearby .
The bloke in front turned to face me and gave me this petrified look .
I 'd never seen anything like it before ; as if his fear was so deep he could n't move ; could n't as much as blink .
He knew what I was before I did .
My hand flew to my face to cover my mouth in an attempt to stifle the song .
It worked to a degree , as he was able to pull his gaze from mine , and had enough presence of mind to get as far away from me as quickly as possible .
He did n't notice the car that swerved to avoid the child who 'd slipped her hand from her mother 's grasp .
Nor did he notice the figure standing opposite .
Dressed in black , from his motorcycle helmet to his biker boots , the figure watched it all unfold .
He raised a hand and wiggled his fingers at me in greeting .
I could n't see his face through the visor , but I got the impression he was laughing at me ; laughing at my inability to stop not just my song , but also the chain of events .
To any onlooker , he appeared to be just like everyone else who watched - a hapless witness to the accident that took the young man 's life .
I squeezed my eyes tightly shut , but I still heard the thud of metal on flesh intermingled with the sound of skidding tyres .
I opened them at the exact moment his head met the concrete pavement after he was tossed into the air from the impact with the car .
Blood leached and pooled beneath his head almost instantly .
Screams filled the air and muffled the one battling to leave my mouth as , unseen to any but the figure and me , pale-blue mist rose from the deceased 's mouth in a steady flow - his soul departing from its shell .
I was torn between letting my song free to lift the veil between the realms as my grandmother had described , and holding it back for fear of discovery .
The hesitation cost me my first charge as the figure held a clear , fist-sized globe in front of him .
The mist seemed drawn to it , filling the globe in seconds .
He turned and walked into the gathering crowd , lost to my sight among the throng of ogling sadists .
While the gore distracted everyone , I too , hurried away .
Grandma was distraught when I told her .
`` No , that 's not right .
The Keening should n't have started until after the death .
We sing to lift the veil so the Ferryman can guide it to the afterlife , what you described sounds more like a warning of an imminent death .
Something we do n't do . ''
`` So why did it start before then ? ''
`` I 'm not sure , but your Aunt Siobhan mentioned something similar happening a few years ago .
Start packing some of your things , I 'll ring and let her know you 're coming . ''
I did n't argue , you do n't disagree with Grandma and not feel her wrath .
After the day I 'd had , Grandma 's anger was not something I needed .
She sent me to live with Aunt Siobhan in the country .
Primarily to learn some control of the wail , but also to find out why my song started before the guy had actually died .
Predicting the death of random strangers is not something I wanted to have happen in public ever again .
During my stay with Aunt Siobhan , she taught me how to control the volume of my song .
`` We must never stop it , '' she told me with such conviction that I wondered if she had tried at some point .
`` The soul will be lost if we do . ''
This was something Grandma had never told me .
`` What do you mean by lost ? ''
`` Our job is to see that the souls cross over with the Ferryman .
If it does n't pass through the veil , it 's lost .
Reaper will come and claim it . ''
`` How do we know who 's going die where , and when ?
We 'd need to know if we 're to be in the right place at the right time . ''
She went to the bookcase and withdrew a large tattered book from the middle shelf .
Opening it at a random page , she set it on my lap and pointed at the script .
`` We have a list .
Dates , times and places appear almost every day , giving us 24 hours’ notice of where we need to be . ''
I examined the text .
`` But it does n't say who ? ''
The voice of the monster rasped , “I am ugly to you ? ” The Virgin Soldier snapped to attention and remained silent .
The monster smiled , flaunting its yellow fangs .
Brenda cringed as a rotting hand reached for her .
She trembled as it caressed her cheek .
The demon Yississ rasped , “I chose you , Brenda Purple the Insightful .
I feel your strength , see your wisdom and hear your keen thoughts.” Brenda’s eyes were closed behind the black goggles fixed to her uniform .
She whimpered as the rotting hands took hold of the goggles and pulled back the elastic hood .
She shivered as the hands then caressed her smooth , bald head .
The inhuman voice cackled .
It rasped , “You remember long , dark , lustrous hair you never had .
Look at me ! ” Brenda reflexively opened her eyes .
The irises of a Concubine clone were ghostly white .
The demon Yississ mocked , “Your eyes were never the lovely brown you remember .
Brenda Purple the Insightful , you are but a mockery of the life from whence you came.” The clone remained stoic in demeanor but Yississ could feel her cold , sickening shame : the demon smirked .
The monstrous , rotting , grotesque form of General Yississ stepped behind the little woman and gently massaged her shoulders .
The demonic voice rasped , “You are a Concubine Priestess , the wisest of the Many of One .
You command .
Your sisters obey .
I command .
You obey.” “Yes… yes , milady.” The monster’s left hand produced a shiny black seed or pill as if from nowhere .
“Open your mouth.” Brenda obeyed .
She cringed and winced as the festering hand poked into her mouth .
“Swallow it.” Brenda hesitated… but obeyed .
The demon kissed the woman on the cheek .
“Return to the others and send Natalia the Discerning to me.” “Yes , milady.” After the twenty Priestesses were called to Yississ one-by-one , the six hundred Scouts were called to the Priestesses .
What remained of the twenty thousand was then called into the forest depths… only to be snatched en masse by the tentacles of what were once the Scouts !
Yississ had been given twenty teleportation-communications relay stations , sixty entomopter aircraft and sixty bipedal main battle tanks .
These technological things were changed into grotesque , partially organic magical artifices by what were now living dead Concubine Keepers .
A thing of tentacles with a human head , arms and torso wearing the purple body shirt of a Concubine Priestess crawled swiftly and nimbly .
The goggles and elastic hood were pulled back , exposing the bald head and now solid black eyes of what used to be Brenda Purple the Insightful .
The writhing cluster of appendages dipped , the arms outstretched and the head bowed before Yississ .
The demon asked its monster , “Brendaxa the Insidious , how goes my plans ? ” The once human thing rasped , “Milady , alive or living dead , your women serve you well.” “Women ?
Brendaxa the Insidious , perhaps the memories of Brenda the Insightful confuse you .
My child , you are beyond the weakness of mortal women .
Alas , you are born again but as something fearless and terrible.” Thousands of crystalline obelisks were planted all across planet Telluria .
One hundred Virgin Soldiers guarded each of them at all times… until guards suddenly and mysteriously… vanished .
Lieutenant General Elzbeth supposed , “Perhaps the natives of the planet are rising against us .
This may be a major offensive.” “No , ” Yazmin , the xenologist of the generals , dismissed .
“We would have found bones or bodies .
Besides , carnivorous plant fairies are less than a percent of a percent of the native population.” Zandra mused , “We lost sixty thousand women in a matter of hours at six hundred different locations.” General Drusilla stated , “We know this isn’t the Army of Four and it is doubtful Adam called the planet to rise against us.” “Do we ? ” Elzbeth challenged .
Drusilla insisted , “This is not the Army of Four .
I doubt it is a popular uprising , either .
Another power may be invading Telluria.” “Who ?
What army snatches tens of thousands of us without leaving a trace ? ” “I don’t know.” Drusilla told her sisters , “We are under attack and we don’t know by whom.” Lieutenant General Olga noted , “None of the crystalline obelisks were damaged .
Whoever is attacking us may consider them useful for their own ends.” “Maybe .
Triple the guard for every obelisk.” Elzbeth fumed , “That will thin security at other locations ! ” “Our master’s obelisks are not to be compromised.” The next day , none of the women guarding obelisks disappeared .
Contact was lost with several bases , however .
The locations were looted and their personnel missing !
“Three hundred thousand more of us disappeared without a trace ! ” Elzbeth blurted .
“My sister , ” she addressed Drusilla , “we must act quickly and decisively ! ” “And do what ? ” Elzbeth frowned as she struggled to offer an answer .
Adam was called to the Tree of the Oracle .
He brought his three soldiers of the Army of Four with him .
The mortal man stared up into the leafy branches of the Oracle , asking her , “More bad news ? ” Wind rustled the leaves and answered , in a soft , feminine voice , “A storm is rising .
Unless its eye is broken , the wind of it shall be the living death of all that lives.” “Spare me the mumbo jumbo and just tell me what you mean.” “My king , an army of living death is being mustered .
Its soldiers are the breathing corpses of mortal women .
Warriors of unnatural life shall join these undead women and together they shall devour the races of the worlds.” “Seriously : what are you talking about ? ” “Adam , King of Telluria , the Concubines of the Great Seen Unseen are betrayed !
Their bodies are made into monsters .
Their technology is made into magic .
Warriors without shape are soon to join them .
Together they shall scour our world and devour its inhabitants .
Your subjects shall feed an army that shall devour the races of the worlds.” “Okay .
What should I do about it ? ” “Adam , King of Telluria , hasten to make peace with the women of the Great Seen Unseen .
Their Virgin Army must join us if the world and the races of the worlds are to survive.” The senior Concubine Priestesses General Drusilla and Lieutenant General Olga were alone together bathing .
Olga mentioned , “We’ve opened the portals commanded by Mistress Umbra and are currently being reinforced by her army of polymorphs .
I took the liberty of informing General Yississ of our dire situation and asked for her help .
She assured me that the polymorphs and her twenty thousand Virgin Soldiers shall be committed to dealing with our problem.” Drusilla smirked .
Olga noticed and asked , “What ? ” “Why would Yississ care about our problem ? ” “Whatever is assailing us may attack her forces as well.” Drusilla was sitting in warm , soothing water but she felt cold and sick .
She considered ordering that the portals be closed and the polymorphs be immediately attacked… but as a Concubine of the Great Seen Unseen she was incapable of disobeying authority .
As a Virgin Soldier she was absolutely obliged to follow the final command of the Beloved Child of the Great Seen Unseen .
The powerless woman of great authority… sulked .
Crowds of what were once Concubine Sentinels had been gathered to a secret place in the forests of planet Telluria .
The “women” stood at attention , holding both vertical grips of their small , compact , plasma minicarbines .
The elastic hoods of their skimpy red uniforms had already been cleanly cut away ; the hoods and black goggles already disposed of .
The eyes of what were once Concubines of the Great Seen Unseen were now solid black and their skin dark , sickly yellow .
Yississ and Brendaxa were in the forest , viewing the crowds of yellow “women” in red body shirts .
The demon told her monster , “Unlike you and the other chosen , the bodies of these remain human .
Though as smart and nimble as they were in life , they are mere zombies .
Unlike our precious Keepers , these Sentinels are mere foot soldiers : they are expendable .
When our murders become battles throw these useless weaklings into the fray .
May their bodies absorb the fury that would otherwise harm our true warriors.” “Our true warriors , milady ? ” “Come , ” Yississ led Brendaxa away from the crowds of undead Concubine Sentinels .
“Our true warriors are coming .
You , my beloved Brendaxa , you and my other Priestesses shall command them.” A horde of shapeless things crawled and slithered through the forest to gather in the presence of General Yississ .
“My children ! ” the demon greeted them .
“I have made you sisters !
They shall lead you to gluttonous victory ! ” The things rose and writhed in agitated enthusiasm .
Yississ cackled maniacally !
Brendaxa grinned .
The attacks were sudden and overwhelming !
Bases and stations were overrun .
Countless Virgin Soldiers were slaughtered or went missing .
The Virgin Army responded swiftly and forcefully , storming and blasting the unexpected enemy into a scattering retreat .
The Concubines pursued their fleeing foe , only to stumble into murderous ambushes !
The mortal women fell back to their bases .
More Virgin Soldiers went missing .
Contact was lost with more bases .
The Yississ War had begun .
The Army of Four snuck their way through the forest , zigzagging along their way as they avoided the stomping of bipedal battle tanks and the booming , thunderous roar of nearby combat .
They ducked when assailed by wayward streaks of glowing , whitish blue plasma bolts .
Adam remarked , “They started the war without us.” Flora added , “May they slaughter each other to the last.” The loud , humming buzz of entomopter aircraft above shook the forest below .
Adam glimpsed what looked like a swarm of giant dragonflies speeding overhead .
Would you like me to catch a cab ? ” Todd glanced at the flight number written on a slip of paper taped to a kitchen cabinet and said , “No need , sweetie .
I’ll be able to pick you up.” “Okay , then .
I’ll see you there .
Love you.” “Love you , too , ” he replied as they hung up .
He poured another glass of cold tea , gulped it and went back outside to finish mowing .
He looked across his lawn and saw his neighbor watering rows of assorted flowers she had planted underneath her bedroom windows .
She saw Todd looking her way and turned the water off .
She dropped the hose and walked over to greet Todd .
“Hey , Yolanda .
Your flowers are looking great.” He looked back at his sparsely populated flower bed and smiled .
“You certainly have the magic touch .
We need you to come over here and work your charms.” “Thanks , Todd .
Your flowers would be doing much better if you and Shannon had more time to devote to them .
They don’t need any charms , just a little fertilizer and some daily watering.” Yolanda adjusted her sun hat and asked , “When is Shannon due back ? ” “She’ll be home in a couple of hours .
I’m going to finish the lawn , run a few errands and then swing by the airport to pick her up.” “This was one of her quickest trips in months .
She wasn’t gone nearly as long as she usually is , ” said Yolanda .
“You’re right .
It was a very short junket this go-around.” “It’s fortunate you guys don’t have any children .
It would be so much more difficult and harder on everyone , ” offered Yolanda .
Todd nodded , bent over and removed the air filter on his lawn mower .
“When does Shannon have to leave again ?
It would be nice if she could stay home and get some rest .
Those business trips must take a lot out of her.” “You’re right about the trips .
They do take a lot out of her .
She never seems to be able to get a good night’s sleep in hotel beds and always comes home exhausted .
Thankfully , she won’t have to leave for some time .
All of her appointments for the next three weeks or so are going to be within the St. Louis area .
She should be home every night.” Todd examined the air filter and tapped it on his concrete driveway .
He looked at the residue and then put the filter back in the mower .
“Tell Shannon to stop by after she gets settled.” “I’ll do that , Yolanda , ” he said as he donned his work gloves .
Yolanda dragged the hose over to a seedling and began spraying a fine mist around the base of the trunk .
Todd waved goodbye , yanked on the starter cord and fired up his mower .
Back at the hotel , Shannon settled the bill and drove her rental car to a nearby diner .
She ordered a salad and diet drink from a server that was in such a good mood , that it was almost scary .
She was seated in a booth facing the door and waiting for her order to arrive , when a strikingly handsome man of medium build entered .
His brown hair was cut in a military style and his short-sleeved shirt exposed well-developed biceps and forearms .
His jeans were a snug fit and clearly defined every inch from the waist down .
Shannon stared at the man’s statuesque physique and initially thought that it was Paul .
If that’s not Paul , it sure as hell could be his twin , she thought as she started feeling aroused .
The man stood by the entrance and faced the parking lot .
He was apparently waiting for someone else to arrive .
He turned his head in Shannon’s direction and smiled at her .
When she saw his face , she decided that the man’s features weren’t close enough to be Paul’s twin .
He could , however , easily pass as Paul’s brother .
Shannon returned the smile and fidgeted slightly .
She wanted a reflective surface to check her appearance , but couldn’t find any close by .
When she glanced back at the stranger , he had turned his attention to another man walking across the parking lot .
“What a hunk !
I wonder if you’re like Paul in every respect , ” she said in a whisper as she drooled over the man at the door .
The thought of a romantic interlude with the stranger excited and intrigued her .
Shannon loved men .
She wasn’t sure why she had a hard time limiting herself to just one .
Maybe it was the excitement of new sex partners .
Maybe it was the attention and gifts .
It may have been all those things combined and more .
She wasn’t really sure and spent little time thinking or worrying about it .
She looked around the diner and tried to think of a good introduction line .
Striking up a conversation with Paul on their first encounter was easy .
She met him in a Tupelo sports bar that was televising a professional baseball game on a wide-screen set .
She had a working knowledge of the sport and chided in with others as they critiqued a bad call by an umpire .
Paul lived in Walls , Mississippi and had driven to Tupelo to help his brother repair the wooden fence running along his property line .
Several sections had succumbed to nature’s persuasive forces and collapsed .
Afterward , both men were dehydrated and physically drained from their exposure to a grueling ninety-six degree day .
They went to the sports bar to relax and recover .
Shannon was a slender , sexy woman with an attractive face and had little problem holding any man’s interest .
Conversation of any substance was rarely an essential ingredient .
Such was the case with Paul .
The waiting man left the diner and met the approaching man just in front of a metal newspaper rack .
They hugged briefly and kissed each other cordially on the lips .
Shannon witnessed the affectionate encounter and immediately scrapped any further efforts to develop conversation topics .
She raised her eyebrows and looked at the approaching waitress .
“Hmmm…he’s not exactly like Paul .
I can’t speak for his brother though , ” she said softly .
“Excuse me ? ” said the waitress .
Shannon smiled and said , “It’s nothing .
I was just muttering to myself.” CHAPTER TWO MADAME NAVOISE Paul eyed the digital clock on his dashboard and exclaimed , “Shit !
I’ll never make it on time.” He finally saw the exit sign he had been looking for and sped off the main highway .
Unfortunately , a Mississippi state trooper was waiting patiently with an active radar gun .
The trooper pulled him over , walked up to Paul’s window and said , “Hey , Paul .
How’ve you been ? ” “Fair .
And you ? ” replied Paul as he removed his driver’s license and proof of insurance from his wallet .
“I’m doing well , thanks .
I see you still favor the far right pedal , ” stated the trooper as he received the documents .
Paul looked out the passenger window and offered no reply as the officer began writing .
The officer looked at the empty gun rack behind Paul’s head and said , “Done any huntin’ lately ? ” “Not much .
Been too busy working.” The trooper finished writing the ticket , handed the book to Paul for his signature and said , “Still working at that auto body shop ? ” Paul signed the ticket , handed the book back to the officer and said , “Nah .
I took a warehouse job in Memphis .
Better pay and chances for advancement there.” “You still live here though ? ” “Yeah , it’s a drive for sure .
I don’t mind it as long as traffic keeps moving .
It only gets frustrating when some idiot screws up the works with an accident.” The officer gave Paul his copy of the ticket and said , “Slow down or you’ll be walking to that warehouse ! ” He tipped his hat and returned to his police car .
Paul drove off slowly and maintained a “safe driving posture” until he reached the side road he had been searching for .
Taking that particular dirt road had the potential of being hazardous .
He liked to use it because it cut a critical twenty minutes off of his driving time to his apartment .
He had used the five-mile , rural stretch of unpaved road on several occasions .
He didn’t like to use it on a regular basis because it was liberally peppered with deep and unforgiving ruts .
The holes in the road often doubled as small ponds after heavy rains .
Unfortunately , as luck would have it , the area had experienced a torrential downpour the preceding day and the road was reduced to a slippery , red clay mess .
Negotiating the road would be more like venturing on an amusement park slide than driving .
Paul cut to the right to avoid a large pool of water and directed his truck to a much smaller one .
He immediately validated the expression , “big things come in little packages” , when he drove into the monster rut just beneath the water surface .
As for its physical , cellular structure , it was essentially similar to higher forms of warm-blooded creatures , making the animal a perfect subject for experimentation .
Another blessing of the breed was their high rate of birth ; to reach this stage of success , the young man had “literally” burned through hundreds of them .
He sent his power deeper into the core of the creature , making his threads of energy even thinner – so thin the blue filaments became invisible to the unaided eye .
He guided them to the animal’s reproductive organs , then focused them on one single cell – an unfertilized egg in her womb .
His goal was to fertilize it , but not with spermatozoa as the Maker intended .
Today he was playing the Maker , creating his own diminutive life-form that he would unleash upon the animal’s unused ovum .
Depending on how he crafted his virus , the union could have incredible results .
His virus was born of the Oneness , and as such , the qualities it bestowed could often be considered powers in their own right ; great strength , increased speed , heightened senses , and of course , immortality .
To combine all of these beneficial traits into a single specimen , that was the young man’s goal .
To do so would make the Makii gods , not just in name , but in truth .
so close .
He pressed on .
He flames merged into a pattern so intricate it appeared a jumble .
But to the young man it was perfect – hopefully so .
He stepped back , wiping the sweat from his brow , then using the dampness to slick back his long black hair .
The creature squirmed , then entered a fit of seizures .
Every muscle in its body tensed to the breaking point , and meanwhile it shrieked , a shrill high-pitched cry of utter pain .
In the corner of the room , the ‘successful’ experiment joined its cry , the young man didn’t dare take his eyes from the creature in front of him , but at his back , the sound of flesh and bone smashing against the silver cage was a distraction he could hardly ignore .
As if it wailed away its soul , there was a final cry , then the new experiment was silenced .
Afterwards , thrumming his fingers on the table in nervous anticipation , the man watched and waited .
Time passed .
and the creature remained lifelessly still .
That’s unfortunate , the man thought , halting his rhythm with a final rap of his knuckles .
Oh well then .
try , try again .
His Oneness went out once more , this time to burn the creature to ash , but before it reached the animal the creature stirred .
It dove at the cage , latching onto the bars with its sharp , long front teeth .
Wisps of smoke rose from its mouth as its teeth burned , but still it bore down .
Even after its teeth became melted nubs , it continued to chew .
and stare at the young man with its beady red eyes – which were slowly being covered with a blackish tint .
Blood frothed from its mouth like spittle .
To the man’s horror , he noticed the cage bar was bending , flexing outward as the creature continued to push and gnaw on it with bloody gums .
The amount of smoke rising from the cage greatly increased , caused not only by the creature’s burning flesh , but from the silver bars as well .
Its blood , like acid , was deteriorating the silver .
Now that , is truly unfortunate .
From his feet to the top of his head , the man’s body suddenly ignited in a pyre of crackling blue flames .
The flames left him in a torrent , engulfing the infected animal .
He tuned his power to actual fire , hoping to incinerate the creature instantaneously .
But surprisingly , as the flames washed over the animal , it squirmed , shrieked and burned .
but it didn’t die .
His power encompassed the cage as well , the heat of which melted the silver bars faster than it did the creature’s flesh .
Imorbis , you fool , he inwardly cursed .
He had no intention of being the first humanoid test subject of his virus , so he summoned as much Oneness as his body could hold .
Never in his life had he held as much .
The table began to crumble , the cage became a pool of liquid silver , the glow-globe burst into crystalline shards .
Even the walls and floor of reinforced tungsten began to show hairline cracks .
Still the animal lived .
and it jumped at Imorbis .
Every bit of Oneness he could hold , he focused on the animal .
He stumbled backward to avoid the creature , tripping over his own feet in his desperation to escape its bloody , wide-open maw .
Still pouring energy at the animal , he fell backwards , landing with a thud on the hard floor .
The animal flew over him , then with a loud “pop” , it exploded in a burst of bloody pieces – several of which fell on Imorbis to quickly burn their way into his black cloak .
Luckily , the majority splattered against the back wall , burning deep holes in the ultra-dense , bi-metal structure .
Imorbis rolled over , untangling himself from his cloak as he did so .
He leapt to his feet , leaving his cloak a now smoldering pile of rags on the floor .
In the corner of the room , his ‘success’ howled louder than ever before .
If he had the strength , he would have instantly sent his Oneness out and destroyed that one as well .
He studied the marred wall speckled with chunks of burning flesh , and wondered if maybe it was time to rethink his experiments – or at the least , rethink their method of containment .
Not that he would quit his endeavors , after all , he was so close now .
Imorbis just worried that perhaps he was getting too close .
Even if he wanted to quit , he couldn’t .
His project was not only sanctioned by the Antevictus , it was fervently supported .
The Ancient Ones had a lot resting on him , him and his companions .
It was fair to say their very lives were at stake .
Such was the mission of all Makii , as dictated by the Antevictus .
The Antevictus were the most ancient of Makii , those that began , and finished the conquest of the universe .
It was they who created the God Door , thus binding all the worlds as one – one Dominion .
And throughout their Dominion , they were beheld as gods – perhaps the most powerful beings to ever exist in the universe .
Because of them , the Age of War finally came to an end , and through their strength in the Oneness , peace was imposed throughout the entire universe .
The Antevictus were now decrepit shells of useless flesh .
Only the Oneness kept them alive , but that’s all it did .
Their bodies were no longer theirs to control .
Telepathically they dictated their will to their followers , meanwhile they sat on their royal thrones in pools of piss and watery feces .
They were dying , these most powerful beings .
It was their decree – their last dying command -- that those with the blood of Makii were to strive for immortality – by any means necessary .
Of all the Makii , Imorbis was the closest to a solution .
He couldn’t stop , but he would have to start over , approach the problem in another way .
But this old one just fits better . '
'Have you any idea how much we spent on that new leg ? '
'Ah !
Now then , Violet .
I did say I was happy with the old leg .
It was you who insisted we fork out good money for a new one . '
Violet snapped , 'Because you needed a new leg . '
'Again .
You , not me . '
Another whack with the hammer .
'There .
Got it this time . '
Violet helped her father into his leg .
'Dad .
We 've a family meeting .
Things to sort out . '
Victor Shaydes kissed his daughter .
'As if I 'll be any use .
Come on , then . '
They stepped outside the workshop , passed the noisy chickens in the Chevy , over three legged Racket on the back step , and into the house for a family meeting .
Grandma and mother were at the kitchen table ; Cyclops still asleep in the middle of it and mother was still naked .
Violet sighed .
'Great .
Just what I need .
A serious family meeting . '
Chapter 2 It was hard to concentrate , with her mother sitting naked before them .
Still smoking , still drinking .
Violet 's father fidgeted with his leg ; gave up with it , unstrapping it and dropping it on the floor with a clatter .
Cyclops made a little hissing sound ; glared myopically at everyone , curled up and went back to sleep on Grandma 's lap .
'Right .
Ok. ' Violet was determined to bring the family to order , so she thumped the kitchen table .
'Bloody hell , Violet , ' said Grandma .
'You almost scared Cyclops . '
Violet said , 'He 's too stoned to give a damn .
Look .
This is serious .
We have to move on . '
'Says you , ' said Grandma .
'I like where we are . '
'Dad .
You see it , do n't you ? '
Dad fidgeted in his seat , unsure what to say .
'Violet .
We 're all comfortable here .
Why should we move ? '
'Why ? '
Violet stood up and paced the kitchen .
'Seriously you ask why ?
How about we are living in a ghost town .
And that does n't even include our dead relatives .
Hillsdown is dying .
Since the steelworks slashed its capacity , nobody wants to be here .
Fairmouthe 's not much better .
I can make good money selling property , but not around here .
Two sales in four months is all I had .
And that was giving them away .
That says all we need to know .
Time to move on . '
'I drove all over the States with the Stones , once , ' said Grandma .
Exasperated , Violet said , 'Your point being ? '
'Keith was my favourite .
He did things to my G spot ... ' 'Grandma ! '
'It was his tongue ... ' Violet shuddered .
'Right .
We have to move on .
I can sell this place with a bit of luck , and we can go to something worthwhile where I can move my career up a notch . '
'It might not have been Keith .
It might have been Charlie , ' said Grandma .
'I remember being in their dressing room .
So many men ... ' 'Grandma ... ! '
'I remember one of the roadies .
Coulda knocked a brick wall down with that thing of his . '
Sally Shaydes had had enough .
'I need another drink .
Anyone else ? '
'No , ' said Violet .
'And you can do without . '
Sally got up and with a naked wobble , went over to the booze , poured herself a very large measure , returned to her seat and consumed half of her drink .
'I 'm with your dad and Grandma .
No point in moving . '
'Gimee strength , ' said Violet .
'And what about Ben , Daphne and Harmony ? '
said Victor .
'We could n't leave them behind . '
'Dad .
They 're dead . '
Victor shrugged .
'They do n't know that .
They should come with us . '
He looked at his wife and mother in law .
'Not that I 'm saying we should go .
But , if we are going , I 'd like to take all of us . '
'They 're ghosts , Dad .
Not like real people . '
Victor rubbed his stump of a leg .
'If we 're going , we all go . '
'Maybe it was n't the Stones .
It could have been the backing band , ' said Grandma .
'That was one hell of a night . '
'All of them ? '
“Dean , what’s happening ? ” Sherry asked , shaking my shoulder frantically .
“I have no idea , but we’ve got ta get out of here.” The possessed people shuffled toward us .
My pulse pounding in my ears , I spun quickly in hopes of getting out the other way , but the entrance was blocked with more people flooding in .
The silver line dividers dropped to the ground with a loud clang .
“We’re trapped ! ” Sherry said , grabbing my arm tight .
“No ! ” I shook my head vehemently .
“Don’t even think that .
We’ll climb up the Ferris wheel.” “And if that doesn’t work ? ” I hesitated , considering my words .
“Then we fight , ” I said , suppressing a gag at the rotten smell .
Guttural sounds—strange growls—emanated from the group as they stared us down like they wanted to rip through our flesh .
They had greenish-looking , cracked skin , torn clothes , and white eyes .
Contacts ?
A wicked case of cataracts ?
Liquid latex ?
Special effects ?
I had no idea , but I was ready to take them on .
A girl with long blonde hair inched closer .
She looked dead , her head unnaturally askew .
Sudden recognition hit me with a jolt : Sherry’s sister !
“Jenny ! ” Sherry shouted ; her voice overwhelmed with emotion .
“Oh my gosh !
What happened to you ?
You’re creeping me out.” Jenny suddenly lunged at me , snapping her jaws like a rabid dog .
She came within only inches from sinking her teeth into my carotid when a policeman fired shots .
Jenny—or whatever she was—crashed down to the ground .
Shocked beyond all belief , Sherry leaned over the cart door , letting loose of her stuffed animal .
It fell to the ground , right next to the thing that looked remotely like Jenny .
Her gaze darted to the policeman holding the gun .
“You shot my sister ! ” “I’m sorry , miss , but that’s not your sister anymore ! ” he shouted back .
“She would have killed and eaten the both of you ! ” More of the possessed group shuffled toward us .
My heart raced .
I clenched my fists , ready to take down anything in my path .
I slid my leg over the bar , preparing to jump out of the cart and fight when one of the policemen fumbled with the controls .
We took off with a jerk .
I fell back into Sherry’s arms , and we shot up about five feet in the air .
The beings lunged after us , shaking the bottom of the cart so violently we nearly fell out .
Sherry clung onto me with a death grip .
The group continued with their guttural chanting , and I swore I was trapped in some kind of lucid nightmare .
“What are they ? ” Sherry screamed in my ear .
“What’s going on ?
What happened to Jenny ?
Why was she…like that ? ” I steadied myself by holding onto the steel bar with one hand and wrapped the other around her as I tried to make sense of what was happening .
Below us , the group of possessed people seemed to have multiplied , holding up their arms as if they wanted a ride too .
I dared another peek over the edge and regretted it instantly .
The whole gathering looked like something out of a horror flick , blood covering their clothes and caking their skin .
Some started to stumble toward the officer , who shot anyone—or anything—who got too close .
“Hang on , kids ! ” the officer said .
With another yank , we sped up into the sky , stopping at the very top .
This time , shaking the cart for thrills or making out was the last thing on my mind .
“That policeman…he…that cop shot my sister ! ” Sherry said between gasps .
She buried her face into my chest and wept .
I pulled her close , not sure what words of comfort to give her .
More shots were fired , followed by ear-piercing screams and then…nothing .
Panic ensued from other riders still stuck on the wheel at various positions .
Better to be up here than down there , I figured .
We had to be at least 150 feet up in the air , and that made me feel safe from whatever was happening below .
My cell phone rang jolting me out of my stupor .
I fumbled in my pocket and answered the call .
“Dean ? ” “Dad ! ” I said .
“What’s going on ? ” “Oh , son , thank God you’re alive .
There’s no time for explanations .
Where are you ? ” he asked , his voice betraying an edge .
“I’m on a date with Sherry .
We’re stuck on top of the Ferris wheel at the beach .
It isn’t moving .
Dad , I think everybody’s dead down there !
I-I don’t know .
It’s all just so…it’s crazy , Dad , like some kind of horrible movie ! ” “We’re coming to pick you up , and then we’re getting the heck out of town.” “It’s too dangerous , ” I said .
“I know this is going to sound absolutely crazy , but you got ta believe me .
People are turning into some kind of cannibals…and they’re attacking people.” “I know .
Don’t worry .
I’ll be armed .
I’ll get you out of there , I promise .
Got it , son ? ” “Where are we going ? ” “Your brother’s flying us to the island with Grams where we’ll be safe .
These things are attacking everybody in Myrtle Beach .
We’ve got ta get far away from here as fast as we can.” On the other end of the phone , glass shattered with a crash , followed by my mom’s piercing scream .
I gasped as the line went dead .
“Dad ! ” I shouted .
“Dad ? ” Chapter 2 One year ago , a deadly virus decimated the world leaving swarms of brain-eating zombies in its wake .
Survivors rushed to the makeshift fortresses , walled-in cities protected by towering concrete walls and a military force to be reckoned with .
I managed to make it to one of these safe havens with my brother and parents , and that afforded me the chance to spend the last year sheltered from the gloom that rocked the land .
My brother , on the other hand , decided to leave the safe confines and continue fighting with the U.S. Army to fight the onslaught of the undead .
He became a top-notch zombie-hunter , but my parents and I didn’t see much of him after that .
My mother feared he might not come back alive , if at all .
Initially , the virus immediately turned anybody into zombies who had type 0+ or A+ blood .
The rest of us seemed safe as long as we didn’t get exposed through broken skin .
We never knew what really caused the outbreak .
And when scientists thought they had it figured out , the rules would change slightly .
The virus mutated , and now if somebody was bitten or scratched , it could take up to five days before they turned…unless they died which meant the change came immediately .
I tried to make the best of the situation .
It wasn’t that bad .
Our house had electricity and water , and I led a fairly normal teenage life—right up until I had to leave and jeopardize my safety ( and consequently my future ) for the sake of a girl I’d only just met .
But I really had no option .
She was scheduled for a lethal injection , and I could not stand by and watch that happen .
I planned on stopping the execution , even though I knew the stakes were high .
After all , if I’d have been caught by the authorities , they would have promptly booted me out into Zombie Land .
It was a fate I did not want to subject myself or my parents to , but after pondering it and considering my options—and the girl’s , which were none—I realized it was a chance worth taking .
I had to save her , no matter what , and I could only hope my parents would understand .
My plan was bold , daring , and sneaky , as a proper rescue mission should always be .
I knew that getting her out of the clinic fast , before anyone noticed , was the key to success .
I laugh about it now , but right then ?
It had literally scared the piss out of me .
The stairs creaked as we walked down .
In the movies , this was the time when they would build up suspense , and let me tell you , they were spot-on right .
I had that twist in my gut that made me feel like I wanted to puke and I was sweating my ass off .
It didn’t go away until we had cased out the whole basement .
We’d found nothing there except two old skeletons , which I knew were there from last time .
We ignored them , since the real dead held no terror for us anymore .
Chapter 2 Brit shook me awake at 2 AM for my watch .
“Get up , squirrel breath , ” she whispered , then stuck her tongue in my ear .
I almost jumped out of the sleeping bag .
It was frigging cold as shit despite being early May , and I jogged around for a bit to get warm .
There ain’t nothing like having to get out of a warm sleeping bag on a cold night .
I grabbed my boots out of the bottom of the bag and pulled them on , then my armor .
I checked my rifle and chewed on some Skittles .
“Gah , that was disgusting !
Forget toilet paper , obviously you’re missing Q-tips , too.” Brit spat loudly on the floor .
“Goddamn .
I frackin’ hate you sometimes .
I really , really do.” She gave me the finger and crawled into my sleeping bag .
I grabbed my gear and headed up the stairs , joining Ahmed on watch .
He filled me in with a mumbled “not much , ” and handed over the NVGs .
Then he leaned over and picked up the sniper rifle , turned the scope back on and settled down on the bipod .
I scanned the area from the rooftop .
The infrared sensor picked up a few hot spots , way in the distance .
I called spottings out to Ahmed .
3 o’clock , 800 meters or so .
We had the ranges pretty well sited from the last time we were up here , but I didn’t expect much .
We had cleared out quite a few the last time , but you could still smell the stench lingering .
They give off heat , too .
Not as much as a live body , but whatever it is that animates them , it makes the muscles work , and that generates heat .
Another thing the movies got wrong .
Ahmed shifted his scope over to the right , then started muttering under his breath .
“Allllaaaaahhhhhhhaakkkkbaarrrrrrrr allllaaaaaahhhhhaaakkkkkbaaaarrrr.” Shit just freaked me out , and I had told him time and again to not do that around me .
Reminded me of all those Haji terrorist videos you used to see of them shooting at us over in the desert , and I could still here the echoes of that call being yelled at me when we duked it out in Fallujah .
I asked him about it once , why he was here in America .
“Nick , yes , you were the Great Satan .
Infidels .
I fought you in Afghanistan .
I fought the Taliban , also , to protect my people .
Then this happened , the demons from hell .
Allah has sent me here to America to kill demons , instead of infidels .
God is great , and it is as he wills it.” Great , I have a muj sniper on my team who might slit my throat one night .
Apparently he had managed to escape from prison in Guantanamo Bay when the plague started , made his way across Cuba alone and gotten to Florida .
That was all he would say about it .
There weren’t any sides anymore other than living versus dead .
We had been on more than a dozen scouts together and he was a damn good shot with the rifle .
He pretends he wasn’t trying to kill me ten years ago , I pretend I wasn’t chasing his ass all over the mountains of the ‘Stan ten years ago .
We both agreed that was all just bullshit now .
POP !
Suppressed , of course .
A shot on a night like tonight would bring the Zs running .
Ahmed picked up the empty brass and slipped it in his pocket when it had cooled .
In the NVGs I watched the hot spot burst into a glowing mist , and the figure dropped .
“So what’s your view on taking down Zs like this in the middle of the night ?
Allah OK with that ?
It bothers me sometimes , you know ?
Once they were someone’s mother , kid , whatever .
At night , through the scope , they look like people .
“ “Nick , they are dead .
I am only releasing their souls to go to Heaven .
It is Allah’s work.” With that , there was another POP !
A figure I hadn’t seen , off to the left , tumbled up and backwards from behind a bush where it had been hiding for the night , knocked over by the impact of the round in its chest .
I watched as it started to get back up and waited for the Z scream to start .
Another muted POP and the figure fell down , with a hot splash through the head .
“I had to smoke that one out , as you Americans say .
Hiding in the brush.” Another thing the movies got wrong .
Zs are smart .
Not people-smart , but maybe like monkey-smart .
Apparently the infection destroyed their higher order brain functions , and , having no heartbeat , they can’t process things all that fast but they have an animal instinct .
They go to ground , hide out , wait in ambush .
Territorial , too .
Ninety percent of Zs will stay within two miles or so of where they died , unless another one starts screaming .
That’s why towns and cities are such a bad idea .
You can find yourself facing a horde within five minutes , `cause those suckers can run when they get pumped up .
One on one , I can out run any zombie , but holy shit , you do not want to trip and twist your ankle .
As for the other ten percent , they wander around like lost souls , always moaning .
They are what make things so dangerous on a patrol through open country .
You never , ever know when you’re going to bump into a solitary Z , and have it attack or start moaning , drawing more to you .
We waited the rest of Ahmed’s shift but nothing else showed up .
Just a pack of wild dogs that was , thankfully , south of our position .
We watched them plow into a herd of deer , taking one down and then fighting over the kill .
Stray dogs scare me almost as much as Zs do .
What’s that , you say ?
Call me a puss to be scared by a dog ?
Hell yes .
These aren’t your friendly golden retrievers or yappy little shits you want to kick like a football .
This is the Rottweiler or pitbull that fought its way to the top of the pack when its trailer park meth dealer/owner turned Z and it got loose in the wild .
I love dogs , and Rocket slept by the front door of the house , always half-awake , listening for Zs .
A pack of strays though ?
Nuh-uh .
Jones came up for the last hour of my watch , letting Ahmed get another hour of sleep .
Then we conducted Stand –to , everyone a hundred percent up , waiting for the sun to rise .
It’s a hard , hard world we live in , if you can call it living .
Chapter 3 “So , the night before we left the FOB , I hooked up with this zoomie guy from that C-130 that came in…” “You is a female manwhore , you know that , right , Brit ? ” We were walking slowly down the east side of the Hudson River , on our way to Fort Edward .
The west side of the river was a no-go , fallout from the Knolls Atomic Power Lab semi-meltdown .
It was probably safe , but the river made a good line not cross until you were north of Schuylerville .
Our objective for the day was the south end of the Champlain Canal and the railroad bridge over the Hudson .
The Army Corps of Engineers weenie huffed and puffed behind me , carrying too much gear .
His problem , not ours .
So , we’ll catch them one day , make new friends , and fight new battles , until what ?
Until our new friends are in a fucking bonfire and all their shit’s lined along the side of the road for some asshole like me to desecrate .
Why can’t you wake up , Kylee ?
Why do you just sit there motionless , staring into space ?
What the fuck are you thinking about ?
Why don’t you understand that I’ve lost nearly everything I’ve ever cared about , and I continue to lose what little I have left with each passing day ?
Why can’t you understand that I need you ?
And you do this now !
No… You’re being selfish , Dext .
You’re being a selfish fucking child again .
Mom would’ve told me that , too .
She’d have said , “The world doesn’t revolve around you , Dext .
You are not the center of the universe .
You might think you are , but you’re not .
You need to be there for Kylee and for your friends .
You need to stand up and lead them or , at the very least , you need to be there to help them.” And I would’ve nodded and argued that I was being selfish because I was hurting .
I would’ve come up with about fifty reasons why I was justified in being a selfish , little prick at that moment .
I’d try and make it make sense .
I’d fail , and I’d know I’d failed .
Then she would smile , and she’d say , “It’s not easy .
I understand how you feel , but I also need you to know that you have to put others before yourself if you love them.” It was right about then that Dad would walk in , catch the tail end of the conversation , and say , “Hey , get your shit together !
Your mother’s right.” Then he’d grab something from the room and walk back to whatever he was doing before .
I’d probably hug Mom and thank her for settin’ me straight .
Then I’d walk out of the room , only to find the old man waiting on me .
See , Mom was great at calling me out and making me realize I had fucked up .
That was crucial .
Then Dad would tell me how to fix it or , at the very least , what not to do .
His approach was more to the point , because he knew exactly how I was thinking .
Let’s face it , he’s just an older and wiser version of me .
Or am I just a younger and more naïve version of him ?
Meh , same thing… He’d say , “Dext , it’s normal .
There’s nothing wrong with feeling the way you do , but you’re actin’ like an asshole .
That’s the difference , man .
You can feel however you want to feel about shit , but when it comes down to how you act , you need to do the right thing .
You need to be a man—not that whole tough-guy , meat-head shit either .
By ‘man , ’ I mean you need to use those insecure feelings to motivate you .
You won’t always do the right thing .
Shit , I used to fuck up daily and still do .
But you have to try to do right by the people around you .
You’ll learn that if you put people ahead of yourself , one day they’ll do it for you.” Right about here , I’d go , “But what about when I put someone ahead of myself and then they don’t do the same when I need them ? ” And he’d look me straight in the eye and say , “That would suck , wouldn’t it ?
Yeah , it’s gon na happen sometimes .
Point is , you weren’t that guy .
Don’t ever be that guy , Dext.” That’s why I miss Mom and Dad .
They were a team .
I needed them both , and they always did their jobs .
Don’t be that guy , Dext .
Entry 84 We found a pretty sweet garage this morning while on a short scavenging mission .
Cutty , Rebecca , and JC stayed back at the tractor trailer with Kylee .
She’s going on about a week of this bizarre , catatonic behavior .
Murphy said it was purely stress related , but he’s not convinced we have the knowledge or the means to bring her back around .
So , for now , we just sit with her and talk to her as if she were normal .
It’s weird , but it gets us through .
This garage was full of tools , parts , and all kinds of awesome shit that we can use to hook up the new truck .
The most pleasant surprise of all was that the welder was in order and still had stuff in the tanks !
Now , as usual , none of this shit came easy , and we had some action while securing the place .
It was nothing that we couldn’t handle but still , every time you come across the dead , you run the risk of some nasty shit goin’ down .
Fart was at Murphy’s side , as always , and her haunches went up almost as soon as we hopped out of the jeep .
Murphy patted her on the neck and told her to lead the way , saying , “A’ight , girl , let’s get ’em” Fool had his rifle across his back , but opted instead to use his sidearm .
I did my best gangster impression and drew my two pistols from behind my back , dual wielding like some Lethal Weapon wannabe .
Murphy shot me a sideways glance and said , “Christ’s sake , Sally , you ain’t no fuckin’ Rambo .
Last time I saw you take a shot at a dumbshit , you almost hit the last survivor in the next state over .
Maybe you oughtta stick to using one at a time , eh ? ” I mumbled something about teabagging him while he sleeps as Fool chimed in , “He can’t shoot , but he punches like a fawckin’ boxer , know what I’m sayin’ ?
Maybe you shouldn’t bust his balls like dat , Murph… Might end up like JC ova here.” We all chuckled at the joke as I stashed one back into my belt .
I was about to say something else , but I didn’t get the chance .
From out of the parking lot beside the garage , a two-piece emerged and started moaning and creeping towards us .
We’ve been calling out our geeks by number like that for the past couple of days .
It makes me laugh sometimes .
The other night , I drew the short straw yet again and had to stand guard while Cutty took one of his famously disgusting baked-bean shits .
While he was in the middle of dropping this massive deuce , he looked up and went , “Awww shiggity !
Got us a three-piece and a biscuit.” I was like , “Knock it off , dude .
You’re gaggin’ me with your funky ass , and you wan na talk about a chicken box ?
If I even think about food right now , I’m gon na barf.” He was like , “Naw , nigga .
Right there !
Three biters and a crawlin’ muhfucka , right across da way—three-piece… and the crawler’s da biscuit.” Why was that funny ?
Fuck if I know , but it made me forget for a second that Cutty was takin’ a crap and three and a half geeks were within twenty feet .
That’s when Kylee would have normally smacked me across the back of the head for not seeing them first .
There was no smack this time .
Instead , Cutty just tossed me a machete and said , “On ya own , homie.” I worked it out .
It wasn’t all badass like Cutty’s machete skills , but I managed to run around the small group , swinging when I saw an opportunity , until they were down .
It took me about ten minutes to get them all finished off while fat ass sat there merrily stinkin’ up the countryside .
Anyway , back to today .
This two-piece was headed at us , so I posted up and took a shot .
Naturally , it missed .
Fool took a long look at me and said , “Nah , you’re doin’ it all wrong , know what I’m sayin’ ?
Hold it like a titty.” Now , my first thought was , Did I just hear that right ?
And I’m sure my face showed my confusion , so he reiterated .
“Ya know , like a titty .
Your holdin’ the fawckin’ gun like it’s ya dick and jerkin’ it all around .
Be gentle , know what I’m sayin’ ?
You don’t grab a titty like that .
You grab a titty all soft an’ shit .
Try again.” I shrugged and took aim again , but this time I let the weight of the weapon sit comfortably in my hand .
I looked over at Fool , and he nodded his approval .
He added , “Now , hold your breath , and squeeze nice an’ easy .
Juuuust like a tiiittttiiieeee.” Boom !
That fuckin’ bernie’s head exploded like Gallagher with a watermelon .
Murphy spat on the ground and said , “Sum bitch !
Not bad , Sally.” He clapped me on the back as Fool casually smoked the second one for us .
Dumb and dumber are scrounging around right now for this and that , but I think we’ll just bring the tractor over tonight and get to work .
We’ve got some ideas on how we can make the trailer secure and comfortable , and Fool is confident that he can figure out where we can make gun ports .
If I had ma way , he be cut off .
Shit , I prolly wouldn’t even miss his ass .
But he got baby girl wit’ him .
Dat mean I’ma have ta bus’ his shit when dey get back.” Kylee scoffed and told Cutty , “Get in line.” She turned back to me and said , “And after that shit you and Murphy pulled last night , I’m not even sure they’ll be back at all .
If I had to call it , I’d say JC was none too pleased with you two .
Lilly didn’t need to see all that.” I tried to reason with her since Murphy was just sitting there in silence .
“You’re right .
She didn’t need to see all that , but she did .
Lesson learned .
I mean , what do you want from us ? ” Kylee got shitty .
“What do I want ?
How about the next time we have to settle a score , we leave out all the dramatic movie bullshit ?
Especially you , Murph .
You need to get your shit together before you snap ! ” Murphy looked up from his thoughts and said simply , “I’m fine now .
Just worry about yourself .
I did what I had to do , and it’s over now.” Kylee huffed and plopped in a chair , frustrated .
“Is it ?
Is it really over ?
Because , by my calculations , we still have one more to deal with… in case you forgot.” Alyse brought out some bread and passed Hook a small amount of weed and a rolling paper .
He nodded his thanks as she told him , “Make sure you eat first.” Then she addressed the rest of us with , “Try and calm down , all of you .
I’m sure JC and Lilly are fine .
She probably just wanted to get outside for a while .
Poor girl’s been through a lot.” Cutty replied , “I hope you right , Miss Alyse .
What y’all wan na do with him ? ” He gestured in the direction of the trapdoor .
Murphy suggested , “Let’s just talk to him .
I have some questions.” No one protested , but no one moved either .
Hook , having rolled himself a joint , sparked it up and walked over to the trapdoor with it hanging from his mouth .
He lifted the door and crouched down to get the stranger out .
Boom !
Everyone jumped in surprise .
We waited a few moments in silence .
Boom !
Another shot rang out .
It sounded close .
Kylee snapped , “JC ! ” Cutty drew his blades as everyone else made for their own weapons .
Hook butted out his doobie , ran for his sawed-off , and announced , “Let’s go.” I held up a hand and suggested maybe it wasn’t such a good idea for everyone to go .
I told them it’d be stupid if we all went and ran into trouble .
“Just let me and Cutty go scout it out quietly.” Kylee protested immediately , but I have her down .
I can pretty much play her however I want , so instead of telling her , “No , ” which I knew she would only perceive as a challenge , I told her , “I need you to hold shit down here .
Keep an eye on Alyse and Hook , and the prisoner especially.” Then I told Murphy , “You’ve done your share of dirt for the group .
Stay here and get your questions answered.” Murphy looked down at the guy in the stash spot and nodded his assent .
Cutty and I hit the door and heard the barricade thump behind us as we made our way in the direction of the gunfire .
Cutty asked me , “You up fo’ dis , homie ? ” I shrugged him off and said , “Shouldah Niggas.” He grinned and nodded .
“Le’s do it.” I headed toward the first bunny pen , since the shots came from that direction and I figured that’d be the most likely place for anyone to run into a bernie or two .
We were double-timing it , so it didn’t take long .
Boom !
Another shot just as we hit the clearing near the pen .
Cutty saw them first and shouted , “Da fuck is y’all doin’ ? ” JC turned to greet us with a smile along with Lilly .
She was holding a smoking pistol .
JC proudly said , “Target practice !
She’s really good !
You guys wan na see ? ” Cutty and I exchanged a skeptical glance before Cutty asked him , “What y’all doin’ out here .
Don’t bullshit me.” Lilly chimed in , “JC brought me out to show me the bunnies !
Too bad some of them got hurt .
They’re cute , though , huh ? ” Cutty approached her and ruffled her hair , saying , “Yeah , baby girl , dey cute .
Still , y’all shouldn’t be out here making all dat noise .
Dead is all around us.” Lilly handed her gun back to JC and proudly exclaimed , “Not anymore ! ” She was grinning from ear to ear .
Cutty shot a glance over JC’s shoulder , and his brow furrowed with rage .
“You .
Mutha .
Fucka.” He was seething as he shoved JC out of the way .
Shit .
Behind them , still bound tightly to the tree , were the remains of Bianca .
She had turned sometime overnight , as was evidenced by the early signs of decay on her face and arms , but there was a gaping hole in the middle of her forehead .
Two other bullet wounds in her torso oozed the black-red blood of the dead .
Lilly told Cutty , “I did good , didn’t I ?
Got that monster right in her head.” JC corrected her with , “Its head , Lil .
They’re not ‘he’ and ‘she’ anymore after they turn.” Lilly took the correction well and said , “Oh , yeah , right .
Sorry.” I tried to chill Cutty out , and instead of making a scene , I simply told JC , “Not cool , man .
She’s five .
I don’t know where your head is at sometimes…” JC quipped , “Says the guy who came out here last night , tied a woman to a tree , and left her to die .
You got ta lotta balls , Dext.” I was about to keep going , but Cutty snatched JC up by the back of his shirt and shoved him in the direction of the cabin .
“Git y’all asses back to the house .
You an’ I gon’ have a talk ’bout dis .
And , Lilly , don’t you say nuthin’ to nobody ’til us grown folk get a chance to hash dis out .
I ain’t none too happy right now.” Lilly pouted and asked him , “You mad at me , Cutty ?
I’m really sorry if you are.” Cutty looked down at her and told her , “Naw , I ain’t mad at you .
I’m just mad .
Dat’s all.” JC held up his hands in mock surrender and sarcastically said , “Wait , so , you guys are pissed because I taught her how to shoot ?
Wow , man .
You guys are somethin’ else.” I urged them to knock it off until we got back , telling Cutty he’d get a chance to say his piece soon enough .
Unfortunately , he wouldn’t get that chance .
We hoofed it back to the cabin , but JC snapped at us to stop a few hundred feet from it .
Cutty pushed him forward once more and told him , “Just shut it , JC .
We through here.” Finally , though , JC spun on Cutty and pointed his finger towards the cabin , angrily whispering , “Look ! ” I followed his pointing and immediately hunkered to a crouch , pulling Lilly to the ground with me .
There were about twenty or more geeks all over the cabin .
They were scratching and biting at the walls , beating on the front door , and stacking up against one another to gain entry .
Just inside the woods to the rear of the house were even more on the approach .
Luckily the barricades were holding .
Cutty quietly snapped , “Shit !
What we gon’ do ? ” I held Lilly as she asked JC , “Where did they all come from.” JC moved his lips to answer , but I interrupted them .
“Your shooting .
Your shooting brought them here.” I was pissed , I can’t lie—still am pissed—but I shouldn’t have said that .
I mean , fuck JC’s feelings… I don’t care how he takes it .
Lilly shouldn’t have to feel guilty about it , though .
It wasn’t her fault that JC had his head placed firmly up his own ass at the time .
Regardless , she frowned deeply and said , “I knew you and Cutty were mad at me.” JC held up a hand and said , “Fine .
I get it , but we’re beyond that now .
There’s too many to handle , and who knows how many more are in the woods or on the way .
Kick my ass about it later .
If that were to happen , we were all dead .
Nick drew his kukri , and Cutty unsheathed his trusty machetes , one in each hand .
Boyd was using his silenced setup , as mentioned—crowbar for me , baseball bat for Kylee , and a broken piece of fencing shaped into a spear for Chalmers .
That left Seth .
We all stared at him blankly as he obliviously sized up the twenty-plus dead ahead of us in the streets .
Finally catching his attention , he said to us , “What ?
I’m good , ” as he clanged his two metal gauntlets together .
I shrugged .
“Whatever works for ya , dude.” Kylee spoke the obvious , saying , “All right .
We go quickly and quietly .
Find Don and Lilly… and anyone else who might be around .
We’ll fall back to the north after we figure out where all the survivors are hiding.” Chalmers asked Nick , “You guys know a back way into your casino .
I’ll assume Gino , Lilly , and the others are probably holed up in there.” Nick nodded , pointing slightly to his left , and said , “Double doors in the alley .
It takes you right into the bar by the casino floor .
We can take the stairs across from the craps tables to the rooms.” Cutty told him , “Dat’s whassup .
Y’all hold the alley and keep da bernies from gettin’ to those doors.” He pointed to Chalmers and me .
“Y’all come wit’ me to the doors , and we gon’ get da floor clear .
Heard ? ” Nods from everyone .
We snaked our way along the fronts of the buildings to the alleyway and broke left , leaving Boyd , Seth , Nick , and Kylee crouched at its mouth on guard detail .
The dead were everywhere .
The entire strip stunk of decay , and the air was filled with flies .
Birds circled overhead in a huge , black cloud , awaiting their turn to feed .
We hit the double doors and made ready .
The very moment Cutty swung them open , we were bombarded with the growls and wails of the dead .
The entire casino floor was crowded with them .
Chalmers wretched , gagging at the sight of Gino’s skeletal remains lying in a pool of jellied blood and surrounded by the feasting dead .
We heard our li’l Lilly scream for help from across the room , though I had to strain my eyes to see her .
Over my shoulder I heard gunfire in the streets , but the alleyway held .
Cutty entered the room and slashed into two of them , brutally decapitating one altogether .
The other fell with a huge split down the center of its head .
Cutty shouted to Lilly , “Hang on , baby girl ! ” Lilly was on the opposite side of the room , trapped .
She had somehow managed to climb up onto the bar and then onto a giant liquor shelf that hung behind it .
She cried out , “Help me !
I don’t have any bullets left !
Don’t let them get me ! ” The dead at the bar were nearly seven deep and lined all along its length .
They reached and clawed at her , leaving her shivering and alone mere inches from their grasp .
There were just so many of them—well over fifty… it had to be .
She was just frozen there , screaming , and none of us knew how long she had been there , left to sit , petrified , waiting for help that might not even show up .
I swung my crowbar into a group on the casino floor that had finally noticed us .
Thanks to Chalmers’ stepping up to help , we were able to down four , but they just kept coming .
Cutty swung wildly at anything within arm’s reach , but he was getting swamped .
He just pressed on and on , further into the group , leaving a trail of limbs and blood behind him .
We tried to hold the position in the doorway , but all I could focus on was Lilly’s screams .
They just… kept… coming… I lost count as the floor piled with bodies .
I heard Cutty shout to her , “Throw the bottles , Lilly !
Throw all of ’em !
I’m comin’ , baby girl ! ” She complied and began throwing the liquor bottles at the dead below her .
They shattered , littering the floor with glass and soaking everything as they crashed open .
Her crying never stopped .
“Hurry , guys .
Please , ” she pleaded .
Cutty roared as he shrugged off one that grasped his arm , then kicked it into some others .
As he reached back to swing down and finish it , two of them latched onto his blade , pulling his arm unnaturally backwards .
He shrieked in pain as the teeth tore into his flesh , spraying bright-red blood into the air .
My heart dropped into my stomach .
He growled angrily and dropped both of his machetes .
Grabbing the two by their stringy hair , he smashed their heads together so hard that his hands touched .
Lilly cried out , “No , Cutty ! ” He called back to her , “It ain’t nothin’ , baby girl !
I gotchu ! ” Then he shouted over his shoulder to Chalmers and me , “Don’t y’all dare come in hurr .
You hold dat fuckin’ door , ya heard ? ” He charged into the alcohol-soaked crowd of the dead at the bar , bowling most of them over .
One of the ones that had fallen to the floor grabbed him and tore into his calf , tearing away a huge chunk of flesh .
He cried out in pain and stomped on its head , exploding it instantly .
He snapped at Lilly , “Jump to me , baby !
I’ma catch ya , I promise.” Another bite into his thigh shot a searing roar into the air as Lilly hesitated .
He begged her , “C’mon , baby girl !
Trust ol’ Cutty .
I won’t drop you ! ” She did it .
She let herself go from the shelf and landed in Cutty’s arms .
The dead snapped at her , but Cutty put his forearm right into their mouths to block Lilly .
He growled at them , saying , “Dat all you got , nigga ?
Dat all you got ? ” He hoisted Lilly above his head and began slogging through the mass of biting dead towards us .
They began tearing at his flesh as tears streamed down his face and Lilly cried hysterically with fear and panic .
The dead ripped at his ribs , tearing his old tee shirt and soaking it with his blood .
He kept pushing through , paying attention only to keeping Lilly safe above the crowd .
With his last ounce of strength , he made it to within eight feet of us .
He heaved a mighty shout and threw Lilly to me and Chalmers .
She landed heavily , knocking Chalmers to the ground .
He scrambled to his feet and scooped her up , disappearing through the double doors into the alleyway .
The frenzy surrounding Cutty built to a crescendo , and I was left all but alone by the dead as they homed in on him , taking bite after bite .
He looked me right in the eyes through tears .
I’ll never forget that look of sorrow and pain .
It seared itself into my brain forever .
He told me through his teeth , now red with his own blood , “ Gim me it , Dext .
Just gim me it , man.” I reached into my pocket and pulled out my Zippo .
I tossed it to him and said the only thing I could think to say… “Shouldah niggas.” He smiled through his pain , still shrugging off the biting dead , and said , “See you on the otha side , ma nigga .
I luh y’all ! ” With that , he flicked the lighter to life and ignited the alcohol .
The room burst into flames , the heat washing over me as if to cleanse me of my sins , and sent me falling back out of the doorway into the alley .
His screams faded quickly .
I… We won’t be able to bury Cutty .
He burned up like the rest of the dead .
That hurts more than anything else in the world to me .
I’m going to miss Cutty the most .
This one… hurts .
More than any of the others , this one hurts .
He lived and died as most heroes do , caring for others more than himself .
He taught me so much about being human and about not judging others at a glance .
He taught me that I can fit in and that family matters more than anything in the world—not just your blood , but those friends that you would call family .
I never thought I would be able to sacrifice myself… my life… for another person who wasn’t my blood relation .
Shit , man , there were even some blood relatives I wouldn’t do that shit for .
Cutty was the best man I ever knew—my best friend .
Twice more it smashed her head against the wall .
She felt herself begin to lose consciousness and decided to bank a guess .
Even at the dead-end of her unfortunate life , she still clung bitterly to the faint wisp of survival .
She grunted twice , as loud and as clear as she could with the bastard rag in her mouth .
For just a second there was no response ; she kept expecting to be slammed into the wall again .
But nothing happened .
The fingers waggled in front of her face .
Yes , she thought .
There were two .
`` Good , fine , '' the monster growled .
It brought the fingers back a little as if to give her a better view .
She held on , squinting .
And with the same brutal force the monster had used to skewer Lester’s brain , it jammed its hand forward in lightning quickness , the pointer and middle fingers pronged out .
They punched into Sandy 's eye sockets with a greasy pop , sending her body into an electric spasm .
Then , slowly , it closed its grip , and stood , pulling her away from the other whore by her face .
It dragged her across the room and tossed her onto the heap of Dead Lester .
Then , wiping its gored fingers on the wall , it squatted to pull the knife from the cooling pimp .
When it turned around the bigger whore was starting to squirm a little .
It smiled , glad all the excitement wasn’t over .
It paused to check the Rolex , pleasantly surprised to find it was only eight .
By the time the monster finished it was a quarter past midnight and the floor was so tacky with blood and gore every step was sticky .
In the dark hallway of the deserted building , the monster changed into running shorts and a tee-shirt , packed the rest of its bloody clothes into the leather workout bag it 'd left by the door hours earlier .
It left the gaslight burning , hoping the whole fucking building would burn down .
The monster 's name was Samuel Franklin .
By the lucky hand of fortune ( one that had regrettably missed the hapless corpses left behind ) its father was a shipping magnate in New Orleans with all the power and influence that came with the title .
It whistled as it made its way back to the 280 Z .
Chapter 1 : The Meeting Frederick Paol pushed away from the bar and checked his watch .
He was meeting the new guys in the Warehouse District and the information handed down was slight to say the least .
Such was the business .
He had the plane to move whatever needed to be moved and the balls to do it .
Standing up , he felt the three whiskeys scratching at the back of his throat , but even so , it helped him feel more secure .
Discomfort was like that .
Never let yourself get too relaxed , that was the motto , brother .
He had a little less than an hour .
He shuffled out to the sidewalk , watching the traffic mash by on Magazine .
Soiled newspapers lined the gutters , flyers on every street pole , people pressing themselves into every commercialized niche they could possibly squeeze themselves into .
Not even four o'clock in the afternoon and already some bum had fashioned himself a rotten , cardboard pallet in the alcove of a deserted porn theater .
Fucking loser .
Better to let him rot where he lay .
Frederick made his way to the curb for a taxi .
He was meticulous about his dress when conducting business ; he 'd seen tourists in their ridiculous , garish outfits stand with their dicks in their hands for hours waiting .
He’d seen failing salesmen sweating in bars over botched assignments .
The cab rolled over to the curb in about a minute .
It splashed a muddy spume across the sidewalk , narrowly missing a strolling couple nearby .
Then it idled in a wet hunch near the Bus Stop , fuming noxiously while Frederick walked up .
He grabbed the handle and opened the door .
`` Where to , buddy ? ''
the cabby said , all the while digging some grotesque chunk from between his teeth .
Frederick grimaced and turned away , closing the door to stare out the window .
`` Corner of St. Claude and Poland . ''
`` The docks , eh ? ''
Quizzical mouse-eyes peered back at him hungrily by way of the rear-view mirror .
The smell of cigarettes , stale coffee , and body odor hung in the air like a load of clothes fermenting in grease .
Frederick nodded and cracked the window .
The cabby pulled away from the curb .
`` Got business out at the docks , do ya ? ''
he insisted .
Frederick gave the man a cold stare and cleared his throat .
`` Here’s the deal , buddy .
I need to be at a meeting very shortly and I do n't have time to dick around with small talk .
Do us both a favor and step on it , could you ? ''
Then he turned back to the window .
The cabby shut his mouth , although he did find a grating and ill-defined radio station that was almost as bad as his chatter .
Frederick let it go , taking the lesser evil , continually watching the buildings that passed so he could center his thoughts on something besides this shit-crate .
When the cab exited St. Claude to Poland , Frederick leaned forward and touched the cabby on the shoulder .
`` This is far enough , '' he said .
The cabby pulled over to the side of the road , fuming but thinking better of voicing any opinion .
Even though they were still several blocks away from his destination Frederick could take no more ; the smell inside was claustrophobically rank .
He flung the door wide and stepped out to the curb , digging in his back pocket for his wallet .
He balled up a twenty and plunked it in through the open passenger window .
The cabby grunted like a pig , throwing in some incoherent comment under his breath which Frederick also let slide as he waved the guy off and walked away , never looking back .
The cab peeled out to the street and sped away .
He kicked along the dirty sidewalk , summing up the neighborhood right and left .
Derelict buildings lined both sides of the road , but just ahead he could see block after block of warehouses .
Trucks rumbling along the roads .
Square miles of choked , confined space rich with rats and inventory , whether hospital beds or brown heroin wrapped neatly in vacuum-sealed packages .
An immediate sharp burst from the whistle of a huge freighter somewhere close on the river .
Then the ominous chop of a paddlewheel either docking or leaving the wharf .
Shortly ahead , he caught sight of the office-front sign .
Franklin Warehouse .
Lincoln had told him the old man owned a sizable chunk of the international shipping trade passing into and out of the Port of New Orleans , and as far as he knew , the old man was on the up-and-up .
It was his two sons Frederick was meeting .
Lincoln had also told him they diverted the old man’s money not infrequently to charter private planes .
And that’s where Frederick came in .
This contact , Lincoln Thomas , was a Vietnam vet who 'd been in and out of prison ever since the waning days of Nixon .
Even so , Frederick had let him set up the meeting .
The difference now was he hadn’t been pinched in a while and times were tight .
Somehow the old hippie knew these rich assholes .
As ridiculous as it seemed , Lincoln had at least a passing knowledge of every scumbag and assorted deep-pocket this side of the Mississippi River .
Frederick had the 9mm stuffed snuggly at the base of his spine .
He knew if the guys were professionals they 'd find it , but he liked the insurance in case they weren’t .
This way , if they did n't let on they knew he was packing , he 'd know they were a bunch of fucking amateurs ( in which case he 'd decline their business ) , and if they did , they 'd also know he wasn’t messing around .
If it all went to hell he had a knife in his boot .
Frederick strolled into the parking lot .
It was littered with trash from a recent festival and the northeast wind that trailed among the District’s corridors .
At a corner of the building he noticed an old black man with a gas-powered blower in his hands , hastening the trash into an adjacent vacant lot .
He lifted his head and offered a small nod as Frederick came on .
Three cars were parked near the entrance .
Two of them late model clunkers , but the one situated directly in front of the door was a sparkling , forest-green Lexus .
The temporary tag was still taped to the back windshield .
“I don’t know what it is , Prior , but it has certainly been touched by deviltry .
That is why I’ve brought it to you.” To me , Tomás thought .
Well , it would have to be me , wouldn’t it .
Yet in all his fifteen years as Grand Inquisitor he had never had to deal with sorcery or witchcraft .
Truth be told , he could give no credence to that sort of nonsense .
Peon superstitions .
Until now .
“That is not all , Prior .
Look at the pattern around the words .
What do you see ? ” Tomás leaned closer .
“I see crosshatching.” “So do I .
Now , close your eyes for a count of three.” He did so , then reopened them .
The pattern had changed to semicircles , each row facing the opposite way of the row above and below it .
His heart gave a painful squeeze in his chest .
“What do you see ? ” “A…a wavy pattern.” “I kept my eyes open and I still see the cross hatching.” Tomás said nothing as he tried to comprehend what was happening here .
Finally… “There is surely deviltry on the covers .
What lies between ? ” Adelard’s expression was bleak .
“Heresy , Prior…the most profound heresy I have ever seen or heard.” “That is an extreme judgment , Brother Adelard .
It also means you have read it.” “Not all .
Not nearly all .
I spent the rest of the afternoon and all night reading it until just before I came to your door .
And even so , I have only begun .
It is evil , Prior .
Unspeakably evil.” He did not recall Adelard being prone to exaggeration , but this last had to be an overstatement .
“Show me.” Adelard placed the tome on the table and opened it .
Tomás noticed that the metal cover was attached to the spine by odd interlacing hinges of a kind he had never seen before .
The pages looked equally odd .
Moving his chair closer , he reached out and ran his fingers over the paper – if it was paper at all – and it felt thinner than the skin of an onion , yet completely opaque .
He would have expected such delicate material to be marred by wrinkles and tears , but each page was perfect .
As was the writing that graced those pages – perfect Spanish .
It had the appearance of an ornate handwritten script , yet each letter was perfect , and identical to every other of its kind .
Every “a” looked like every other “a , ” every “m” like every other “m.” Tomás had seen one of the Holy Bibles printed by that German , Gutenberg , where each letter had been exactly like all its brothers .
The Gutenberg book had been printed in two columns per page , however , whereas the script in this compendium flowed from margin to margin .
“Show me heresy , ” Tomás said .
“Let me show you deviltry first , Prior , ” said the monk as he began to turn the pages at blinding speed .
“You go too fast .
How will you know when to stop ? ” “I will know , Prior .
I will know.” Tomás saw numerous illustrations fly by , many in color .
“Here ! ” Adelard said , stopping and jabbing his finger at a page .
“Here is deviltry most infernal ! ” Tomás felt his saliva dry as he faced a page with an illustration that moved…a globe spinning in a rectangular black void .
Lines crisscrossed the globe , connecting glowing dots on its surface .
“Heavenly Lord !
It…” He licked his lips .
“It moves.” He reached out , but hesitated .
It looked as if his hand might pass into the void depicted on the page .
“Go ahead , Prior .
I have touched it.” He ran his fingers over the spinning globe .
It felt as flat and smooth as the rest of the page – no motion against his fingertips , and yet the globe continued to turn beneath them .
“What sorcery is this ? ” “I was praying you could tell me .
Do you think that sphere is supposed to represent the world ? ” “I do not know .
Perhaps .
The Queen has just sent that Genoan , Colón , on his third voyage to the New World .
He has proven that the world is round…a sphere.” Adelard shrugged .
“He has proven only what sailors have been saying for decades.” Ah , yes .
Brother Abelard fancied himself a philosopher .
Tomás stared at the spinning globe .
Although some members of the Church hierarchy argued against it , most now accepted that the world God had created for Mankind was indeed round ; but if this apparition was supposed to be that world , then the perspective was from that of the Lord Himself .
Why now ?
Why , with his health slipping away like sand – he doubted he would survive the year – did a tome that could only be described as sorcerous find its way to his quarters ?
In his younger days he would have relished hunting down the perpetrators of this deviltry .
But now… now he barely had the strength to drag himself through the day .
He sighed .
“Light my candle and leave this abomination to me .
I would read it.” “I know you must , dear Prior , but prepare yourself .
The heresies are so profound they will…they will steal your sleep.” “I doubt that Brother Adelard.” In his years as Grand Inquisitor he had heard every conceivable heresy .
“I doubt that very much.” But no matter what its contents , this tome had already stolen his sleep .
After Adelard departed , he looked around at his spare quarters .
Four familiar whitewashed walls , bare except for the crucifix over his bed .
A white ceiling and a sepia tiled floor .
A cot , a desk , a chair , a small chest of drawers , and a Holy Bible comprised the furnishings .
As prior , as Grand Inquisitor , as the queen’s confessor , no one would have raised an eyebrow had he requisitioned more comfortable quarters .
But earthly trappings led to distractions , and he would not be swayed from his Holy Course .
Before opening the Compendium , he took his bible , kissed its cover , and laid in in his lap… The full chapbook is available here : The Compendium of Srem 1923-1924 Aryans and Absinthe …introduces us to Ernst Drexler .
His connection to the super-secret Septimus Order is never mentioned in the story , but he’s obviously got an agenda .
He plays a pivotal role in the shape of the twentieth century , and his foppish son , Ernst II will be a major player in the last few decades of the Secret History .
As for the story itself : Early in the summer of 1993 Douglas E. Winter called to invite me into his latest anthology .
Revelations would consist of a novella for every decade of the twentieth century , each story centering on some apocalyptic event .
He told me to pick a decade .
I chose the 1920s – Weimar Germany , specifically .
The arts were flourishing but the economic chaos and runaway inflation of the times were so surreal , so devastating to everyone’s day-to-day life that people – Jew and gentile alike – were looking for a savior .
A foppish little guy named Hitler came to prominence presenting himself as that savior .
I did extensive research for “Aryans and Absinthe.” Charles Bracelen Flood’s remarkable Hitler : The Path to Power ( Houghton Mifflin , 1989 ) was a major source .
I wanted to get the details right so I could make you feel you were there .
I was pretty high on it when I finished .
I thought I’d captured tenor and tempo of the times , felt I’d conveyed an apocalyptic experience .
The opening segment follows : Aryans and Absinthe ( sample ) Today it takes 40,000 marks to buy a single US dollar .
Volkischer Beobachter , May 4 , 1923 Ernst Drexler found the strangest things entertaining .
That was how he always phrased it : entertaining .
Even inflation could be entertaining , he said .
Karl Stehr remembered seeing Ernst around the Berlin art venues for months before he actually met him .
He stood out in that perennially scruffy crowd with his neatly pressed suit and vest , starched collar and tie , soft hat either on his head or under his arm , and his distinctive silver‑headed cane wrapped in black rhinoceros hide .
His black hair swept back sleek as linoleum from his high forehead ; the bright blue eyes that framed his aquiline nose were never still , always darting about under his dark eyebrows ; thin lips , a strong chin , and tanned skin , even in winter , completed the picture .
Karl guessed Ernst to be in his mid‑thirties , but his mien was that of someone older .
For weeks at a time he would seem to be everywhere , and never at a loss for something to say .
At the Paul Klee show where Klee 's latest , `` The Twittering Machine , '' had been on exhibition , Karl had overheard his sarcastic comment that Klee had joined the Bauhaus not a moment too soon .
Ernst was always at the right places : at the opening of `` Dr. Mabuse , der Spieler , '' at the cast party for that Czech play `` R.U.R. , '' and at the secret screenings of Murnau 's `` Nosferatu , '' to name just a few .
And then he 'd be nowhere .
He 'd disappear for weeks or a month without a word to anyone .
When he returned he would pick up just where he 'd left off , as if there 'd been no hiatus .
And when he was in town he all but lived at the Romanisches Cafe where nightly he would wander among the tables , glass in hand , a meandering focus of raillery and bavardage , dropping dry , witty , acerbic comments on art and literature like ripe fruit .
She’d be pissed if the animals made a mess .
The last thing he wanted to do was go outside , but the thought of Adeline chewing him out prompted him to head back into the kitchen and get his coat .
On his way , he peered out the sliding glass doors in the living room , but saw nothing .
He pulled on his jacket , then walked through the kitchen and to the back door .
A pair of boots lay on the floor mat .
He retrieved them and slipped them on .
When he’d finished dressing , he turned his attention outside .
The wind had picked up , and it battered against the windowpane , casting a layer of white over the small , rectangular windows .
Out of habit , he flicked on the light switch .
The backyard remained dark .
The garbage bins were about a hundred feet away , next to the shed .
He peered into the night but could make out little more than their outlines in the snow .
There was no sign of any animals .
Perhaps the raccoons had already scurried away .
For a second , he contemplated going to bed .
But if he did , and the animals made a mess , he’d feel Adeline’s wrath for sure .
He reached for a broom beside the refrigerator , then opened the back door .
He was immediately hit with a blast of cold .
Leon folded his arms across his chest .
It was freezing .
He’d make quick work of the animals , then scoot back inside .
He stepped into the yard , immediately blinded by the falling snow .
In just a few minutes the storm had intensified , and he could no longer see more than a few feet in front of him .
There were already several inches of snow on the ground .
He shielded his face with his arms and took another step , wielding the broom .
His legs faltered .
Leon was groggy , and half-drunk to boot .
I shouldn’t have had that many beers before bedtime .
I should’ve gone to bed .
If he’d skipped watching television , he’d be asleep right now .
But it was too late for that .
He picked up his pace , boots crunching the snow .
The shed loomed closer .
Through the blizzard , he could now make out the white vinyl siding and the black shutters that matched his house .
The two garbage bins sat next to it .
Neither appeared to have been disturbed .
False alarm , he thought .
If the critters had been trying to get in , there was no sign of them now .
He looked to his right .
Past the neighbor’s fence , he could see the shadowed hulk of the house next door .
The raised ranch was dark .
They’re probably asleep .
Like I should be .
Whatever he’d heard must not have been the garbage cans .
Perhaps he was imagining things .
Leon was tired as hell , after all .
He turned his attention back to the house and began slogging his way through the snow .
In front of him he could see the outline of the back door , which he’d left open a crack .
He was almost there .
He blinked to clear the ice that clung to his eyelashes .
It was then that he sensed something behind him .
Leon paused mid-stride , tightening his grip on the broom .
His feet quaked from the cold , and his face felt like it was going numb .
In spite of that , he smiled .
The stupid raccoons probably thought they were going to pull one over on him .
Maybe they were trying to wait him out .
If that was the case , they had another thing coming .
He spun and peered into the darkness .
The shed and the garbage cans were exactly as he remembered them .
Next to them , cloaked in shadow , was a pair of eyes .
Leon blinked twice to ensure he wasn’t seeing things , but the image persisted : twin embers looking at him from the left-hand side of the shed .
Was he imagining things ?
Was he more drunk than he thought ?
He squinted , but could only make out a shadowed mass behind the cans .
Whatever it was , it was big .
Much bigger than any raccoon .
He’d need more than a broom .
Before he could react , the thing moved .
Leon fell back a step , almost losing his balance .
The thing watched his movements , tracking him like prey .
Though he couldn’t see what the thing was , he could sense that it was dangerous , that it meant him harm , and he fought the overpowering urge to run .
Whatever it was would sense his fear .
He wasn’t sure of much , but that he knew .
He backpedaled slowly , testing each step .
Although he wasn’t far from the door , he knew that running might provoke a predator to attack .
If he could get just a little farther , he could clear the doorway .
Then he’d slam the door and call animal control .
The police .
Someone .
Anyone .
Someone would take care of it , and afterward , he’d get some sleep .
The thing moved again .
Leon repeated his plan in his head as he inched backward , his heart knocking against his ribcage .
He was getting close to the door .
He could see the house in his peripheral vision ; he was almost there .
Before he could reach the door , the shape emerged from the shadows , illuminated by the pale wintry sky .
The animal—thing—was the size of a man , but it walked on both hands and feet , its body covered in coarse dark hair .
It sniffed the air as it came toward him , eyes blazing .
Leon attempted to turn , but in his panic , he tripped .
The snow had already accumulated several inches , and he stumbled in the crevice of his own footprints .
Suddenly he was flat on his back .
He pushed off the ground , scrambling to right himself , but he was too late .
The creature was already loping toward him , and before he knew it the thing was hovering over him , its warm breath misting the air .
Leon opened his mouth to scream , but no sound came out .
His heart thundered .
He watched as the creature tilted its head to the sky as if performing some ancient ritual .
Tendons stretched , nostrils flared .
Its eyes roved the night , perusing the heavens , then lowered and locked on his face .
The last thing Leon saw was a set of jagged teeth and claws .
He screamed as the creature ripped into him , its nails severing his head from his body .
The AI determined a zombie plague was the most effective way to achieve its three directives .
Chapter 2 : Mark Jones , September 13th , Year 1 My name is Mark Jones .
I’m a 46-year-old trust-fund baby , living in Sugar House , Utah , an older suburb of Salt Lake City .
I lost my parents when I was 22 and ever since I’ve had a trust fund that paid me 300 thousand dollars a year .
The only reason to work is because you need the money .
I don’t need the money .
I’m not interested in getting a job and I am always looking for something to distract me .
One of the ways I distract myself is by taking on projects that use up a lot of time , like running a 100-mile race .
The most famous 100-mile race in Utah is the Wasatch 100—a hundred-mile , 5700-feet-of-elevation-gain-trail run that goes from Layton to Sundance every September .
My goal was to run the race in less than 30 hours .
For the last six months I had been spending from 30 to 50 hours a week running the mountain trails around Salt Lake and Park City .
My respect for the guys , who do this kind of stuff , while working and having families , went up a lot .
After eight hours of running in the mountains surrounded by some of the most spectacular scenery in the world , all I wanted to do when I got home was to eat a huge meal , drink one or two beers , watch a documentary from the History Channel I had TiVo’d , and go to sleep .
It was one of the most Zen periods of my life .
While I was training , I didn’t read a newspaper , surf the web , or watch the news .
When I needed a break I’d call some friends and go out to a B-grade action movie and/or a sports bar .
There wasn’t much call at a movie or sports bar to talk about current events .
On September 10th and 11th , I ran the Wasatch 100 .
I had heard great things about how well-supported the race was .
It wasn’t .
There was hardly any support and there were surprisingly few runners ; it took me 25 hours and 32 minutes to complete the race .
I had trained properly so the lack of support wasn’t a big issue .
Afterwards I went home and slept almost continuously for 48 hours .
My home was built in the 1950s .
It’s one of those post-World War II brick homes with real hardwood floors , a detached garage and a small fenced-in back yard .
I had 1000 feet of finished space on the main floor ; a small cubbyhole of a finished attic that could have been , but never was , used as a guest bedroom ; and a finished basement that I used as my bedroom .
I bought the house ten years ago and for the first six years I spent all my time working on the house .
In the basement I have no windows .
I generally sleep whenever I am tired , which as often as not is during the day .
After the Wasatch 100 , all I did was sleep , occasionally getting up to drink some Gatorade , eat some cold pasta out of the can , and go to the bathroom .
Two days later I felt human .
I looked at the alarm clock and it was 10 a.m. I’d had enough of the darkness and wanted to see the sunlight .
I got out of bed , threw on my robe and went to my upstairs kitchen .
The only place I have to sit is a single stool next to the island .
I have a coffee maker and a small laptop I use to surf the news .
These two appliances were the only things I used on the main floor .
I made some coffee and started up the laptop for the first time in months .
My Yahoo homepage didn’t come up .
I checked my wireless signal strength and it was good .
After working on this for a few minutes and getting frustrated for the first time since I’d walked upstairs , I looked out my windows .
What the fuck !
My entire neighborhood looked like a set from a zombie movie .
There was a car turned over in front of my house , multiple car wrecks , a house three doors down looked like it had been burned , and I saw two of my neighbors in zombie costume wandering in the street .
Because of where I live , I couldn’t escape the fact that all three High School Musicals were filmed in Utah .
It is cheaper to shoot films here than in California but it had to be expensive as hell to set up a zombie scene on a residential street , much less burn down a house .
I couldn’t get my home page to work or log onto the Salt Lake Tribune or Deseret News websites to find out what was happening , so I put in a Google search for the terms zombie and Sugar House , Utah .
The only thing that came up were articles that had been cached and all those articles were about zombie outbreaks .
I was thinking that this had to be a joke .
I have some acquaintances that had the IT know-how to mess with my home network , but we weren’t good enough friends for them to bother playing an elaborate prank on me .
I read some of the articles .
It was an incredibly detailed batch of fake archived news stories about a zombie outbreak that had started in Africa and spread throughout the world .
These articles were intense .
They were labeled as being from Fox News , the New York Times , the Wall Street Journal and a bunch of other papers whose names I didn’t recognize .
I remember when that indie movie , “The Blair Witch Project” came out .
One of the coolest things about that movie was the website that gave the background to the movie .
This website had eye witness reports , blogs , newspaper articles and everything else you could think of , giving the appearance of a real documentary .
Everyone I knew that had checked out the website before the movie went to see it .
Some production company had obviously decided to do “The Blair Witch Project” with a lot more money .
This was too involved and cost too much money to be a prank .
One of the first things I did when I started working on my house was to install one of the best surveillance systems on the market .
The cameras outside my house are all disguised .
I have enough hard drive space dedicated to these cameras to hold about a week’s worth of video .
I thought it would be cool to observe the movie crew setting up in my neighborhood so I logged on to my laptop and backed up to the surveillance tapes on September 11th to when I had come home from the race and then fast-forwarded the video from then .
September 11th ; hmm , I thought the producers of this movie were pushing the boundaries of taste in choosing this date .
An hour into the video replay , I realized I had just missed being awake for the show .
I saw neighbors coming out of their homes with their bags and loading up their cars and trucks within minutes of each other .
Wow , this was realistic .
I wondered why I hadn’t been contacted to take part in the filming .
Everyone was leaving at the same time .
There were quite a few people who looked sick , were moving slowly or were getting help from relatives to get into their vehicles .
I saw a traffic jam form in a cul-de-sac in a quiet residential neighborhood street .
I couldn’t believe the amount of detail that was being put into this movie .
None of these people were professional actors .
They were clearly my neighbors .
I was really surprised by the quality of the acting .
Everyone , including kids like 6-year-old Sarah from a few doors down , was in character .
Even though there was no sound , I was really enjoying the show .
I made a note to myself not to overwrite this footage .
The traffic jam had cleared and there were only a few neighbors left in their homes .
Most of those were also packing up their cars and getting ready to leave when the zombie attack started .
It occurred over a period of minutes , but all the people who looked sick started attacking everyone else .
With all the biting and the screaming , it was just like a Romero movie .
One lady—Mary somebody—was swarmed by five zombies and was knocked off her feet right in front of my house .
The zombies started devouring her .
This was hilarious and really well acted .
Most surveillance cameras take such low quality video that facial features can barely be recognized .
My cameras take high-def video .
The zombies were all over Mary and I was having problems seeing all the details of the attack .
I expanded the screen shot so I could see her face and part of her right shoulder .
I didn’t know her too well .
I’d say hello when I saw her in the neighborhood .
I didn’t know she was a professional actress .
I couldn’t believe she was an amateur because she really looked hysterical .
Then I saw it .
One of the zombies bit off her nose .
This was sick ; I mean it’s ok to bite a neck or an arm , but disfigurement of someone’s face , even in a movie ?
That’s just wrong .
This was sick enough to watch again .
As I watched the scene again , I got a sick feeling in the pit of my stomach .
This wasn’t the fascinated , entertained sick feeling I’d had moments before .
“Bring Sticks.” It wasn’t that she wanted her little girl inside the house .
Ideally , Micah wanted Elliott far away from Bowridge with neither knowledge nor memories of the place to tarnish her innocent outlook on life .
But that wasn’t an option .
Not since the fire… Elliott just didn’t like to be left alone .
So there was no way Micah could go inside without her .
Bowridge was their new home .
A new start .
Girl and dog jumped from the car .
Using all fifty pounds of her body weight , Elliott slammed the heavy truck door and raced for the steps , Sticks only a few steps ahead of her on his hot-pink leash .
Micah took her daughter’s hand with a smile .
White blonde hair , sun-tanned skin , and skinny legs just like her father’s that jutted from beneath her blue jean skirt .
She was the most beautiful child in the world .
Micah couldn’t even see the scar anymore .
Hooray for modern medicine , she thought , brushing her fingertips across the soft skin of Elliott’s bare arm .
“Watch where you step and stay close , ” Micah warned , giving Sticks a playful nudge with her toes .
He nipped at her flip-flop playfully .
Elliott nodded succinctly .
“Yes , Momma.” The foyer was fairly small for such a large home .
Straight ahead , a worn wooden staircase climbed the pale yellow wall before making a hasty ninety-degree turn up to the second floor .
An ancient chandelier clung to the ten-foot ceiling above their heads .
Beneath the second set of stairs , another archway revealed a staircase that led down to the ground floor .
It was cool a full ten degrees cooler inside , as if the AC were running .
Micah raised an eyebrow , holding firmly to Elliott’s hand as she reached to flick the light switch next to the door .
Nothing happened .
She flicked the second switch and stepped outside to make sure it didn’t control the porch light .
The shattered globes on either side of the door weren’t any help .
“How can that be ? ” she asked her husband as he appeared in the archway to the living room .
She shut the door , cutting off the ambient street noise .
The house fell into eerie silence .
Garrett shrugged .
His shaggy black hair was sticking straight up as if he’d stuck his finger in a socket .
“Lights in there don’t work , either .
Electricity must not be on.” “But the air pressure ? ” Micah gestured to the mail slot .
They would have to get that fixed stat .
She imagined all manner of city vermin climbing through the slot alongside bills and bank statements .
“I’m sure it’s just some kind of negative flow .
There are broken windows upstairs.” Micah felt a rush of relief .
“Oh , that’s true.” Garrett leaned over to kiss her gently on the forehead while he ruffled Elliott’s hair , making the little girl giggle .
“Hey , ” he said softly against Micah’s temple .
“Quit worrying .
Let’s bring our stuff in , and I’ll pull out the laptop and get the electric hooked up , ‘kay ? ” He grinned .
“This will be fun.” Micah exchanged glances with her daughter—even their young child knew a hopeless case when she saw it .
“Famous last words , ” Micah said , rolling her eyes .
* “They’ll be out in less than an hour.” Micah turned around from gazing into the jungle of a backyard .
Or side yard , rather , seeing as the house was long rather than wide , and the teeny quadrangle of yard was situated just outside a side door .
Elliott stood in the fenced enclosure with Sticks , throwing a Nerf ball for him to fetch .
His floppy red ears bounced with every sprint .
“That’s fantastic .
How did you manage that ? ” Micah asked , uncapping her bottled water for a drink .
The liquid was refreshing ; the energy she had expended carrying luggage inside had made her thirsty .
Garrett rubbed his hands together , a gleam in his eyes .
“I have my ways , ” he intoned , swooping forward to encircle her waist with his arms .
He swung her around so that her flip-flops left the floor and she felt weightless .
Micah squealed .
“Put me down ! ” He did , but instead of pulling away , his lips caught hers : soft , sweet .
They tasted like Carmex , his drug of choice .
She relented beneath his touch , pressing her body into his—the perfect fit .
Ten-year-long puzzle pieces that still clicked together with a perfection borne of friendship .
The kiss grew heated .
Micah wanted to shove away her fears about the house , her worries about the cost of restoration , and take her husband right there on the living room floor between the aged , plastic-covered sofa and the coffee table .
Judging by his reaction to the kiss , he agreed .
A low giggle brought Micah back from the brink , and she broke the kiss with an audible smack .
She glanced over her shoulder to find Elliott in the open doorway , the concrete patio and ivy-trimmed verandah visible behind her .
“You were kissing , ” she accused .
Garrett slapped Micah on the rump and pulled away .
“I’m going to run to the drugstore .
We need a couple of necessities .
Like toilet paper.” “We’ll go with you , ” Micah said quickly , striding across the floor to get her purse .
“No , you guys need to stay here just in case the lawyer beats me back.” He slipped his wallet into the back pocket of his cargo shorts .
“No use making him wait outside.” “I’d rather wait outside , ” Micah grumbled .
Elliott launched the Nerf ball into the foyer , and Sticks’s claws scrabbled for purchase as he took off after it .
Micah couldn’t even force herself to get on Elliott for throwing balls in the house .
She met Garrett at the front door .
“Don’t leave us alone here , ” she said softly , shooting a glance at her daughter .
The girl wasn’t paying them any mind .
“Micah.” Garrett smiled , tucking her hair behind her ear gently .
“Love , it is just a house .
Now.” He pressed a quick kiss to her lips .
“I’ll be back shortly.” Then he was gone .
* “This place is so big , ” Elliott said , her voice awed .
“Six bedrooms , ” Micah agreed as she led her daughter down the upstairs hallway .
At the apex of the staircase , they could walk left , passing closed doorways—presumably to bedrooms—to the back of the house and a giant bathroom equipped with tub , shower stall , toilet , and a double sink .
They were now walking towards the front of the house , where the hallway ended at a gorgeous bay window seat that looked out over the street below .
Sticks’s claws clicked along the hardwood floor , the sound much louder in the abnormal silence than it should have been .
Micah rolled her eyes at a pile of timber on the floor—that would be a pain to get down to the basement .
Or the half-basement , half-ground floor , whatever the heck these southerners called those weird in-between floors underneath the main level .
“Big enough to get lost in , so stay close , ” Micah went on .
Elliott rolled her eyes .
“I know , Mom.” Micah peeked into the first open bedroom door .
The room was spacious , with tall ceilings and windows .
A four-poster bed dominated the middle of the floor , and a matching antique dresser graced one wall .
It was simple and opulent all at once—a throwback to nineteenth century wealth .
Elliott poked her head around Micah’s waist to appraise the room .
“There are leaves on the floor , ” she observed with the acuity of a seven-year-old .
Micah laughed and turned to face her daughter .
“Keen senses of observation , daughter-mine .
There are quite a few broken windows on this floor .
Remind me to Google window replacement companies.” Elliott’s brilliant blue eyes crinkled when she smiled .
She clicked her heels together and saluted .
“Copy that.” They moved on to the next room—similar to the first but with an en suite bathroom .
He gave no indication one way or the other .
Uncle Milton was still in his own world , clearly engrossed in his perusal of the books on the shelf .
The gleam in Trevor’s eyes became colder .
He licked his lips and then ran his tongue along the line of his teeth .
From the floor above , I distinctly heard the pitter patter of little feet .
Judging from the sound of it , several small children were playing up on the second floor .
Trevor’s eyes fixated on the ceiling and then he stole another glance at me .
“Like I said , I 'll show you where they lived .
And if they like you , they might even let me show you where they died.” 2 Unless I was mistaken , Trevor had just informed me that if a group of dead orphans decided they liked me , they might allow him to show me where they died .
I don’t know what I would have said to him had the door to the sitting room not creaked open at that exact moment .
A thick man glided into our presence .
His hair was longer and thicker than Trevor’s , but the same dark shade of red .
He wore the sleeves of his crisp white dress shirt rolled above the forearms , and I noted that the same coarse red hair grew on his arms .
“Milton ! ” exclaimed this newcomer .
He promptly moved toward my uncle and embraced him , grasping him at the elbows when they parted , beaming at him .
He turned toward me , the smile never wavering , never faltering .
“And this must be young Henry ! ” The stranger pumped my hand , grinning at me , always grinning .
The wolfish smile never left his lips during that entire exchange .
He asked me pointed questions in rapid-fire succession , as if I were the most fascinating person he had ever met in his life .
So this was Esau Drury , the master of the estate .
Over our host’s shoulder , Uncle Milton wore a sullen expression with which he silently reminded me to mind my manners and not say or do anything insulting .
For some reason , Trevor scooted from the room , unnoticed by either adult .
At no point did Esau inquire as to the accident , and I surely did not volunteer the information .
I never wanted to speak of it again if I could help it .
Uncle Milton had said in the car that his sending me to stay at Drury Manor was not meant as punishment , but I knew better .
Did he think I was stupid ?
“Come , come ! ” Esau exclaimed after prying enough information from me to write a small biography .
“Helen should have supper on the table any second !
I bet you’re famished after your long trip ! ” His eyes gleamed and he patted me on my shoulder .
I doubt I could have explained it at the time , but there was something behind his forced enthusiasm that I could not bring myself to trust .
It was too unnatural to be real .
There was something else behind those glassy eyes that did not quite match the exuberance he tried so hard to portend .
Esau guided us from the sitting room back up the corridor and through the foyer .
I fell into step behind the grown-ups , hands in my pockets , dragging my feet along the floor as Esau chatted with Uncle Milton in delighted whispers .
I knew they were old friends , but from the way they leaned toward each other and the excitement level as they reconnected , I would have thought they were brothers who had finally found each other again after a lengthy separation .
In the foyer , I stopped short at the foot of the winding staircase .
It spiraled up to a landing on the second floor , decorated by an intricately carved wooden handrail and polished bars .
I traced its path with my eyes up to the second story .
A young girl crouched on the top step of the staircase , peering down at me from between two of the iron bars that supported the railing .
Her skin was pale to the point of translucency , and her blonde curls looked like whirlwinds about her head .
She could not have been more than five or six years of age , and she wore an immaculately pressed baby-blue dress that fell to her ankles .
Her black pupils struck a sharp contrast against the whites of her eyes .
I was mesmerized .
For several seconds we regarded each other .
Neither of us smiled or waved .
We merely gazed , transfixed , into each other’s eyes , until a rough hand grabbed my arm , hard enough to hurt .
“Come on , then ! ” Uncle Milton said .
Esau waited at the far end of the foyer .
My lagging about the staircase had caused them to leave me behind , and forced them to come back for me .
Uncle Milton’s nostrils flared as he pulled me along , and Esau stood patiently with that same cheery smile plastered to his face .
I just wished he would stop grinning like that ; it unnerved me .
We went through a different door this time , which brought us into the dining area .
A white linen tablecloth spanned the length of the long table , which could have comfortably seated twenty or more guests .
Someone had artfully arranged the expensive china and silver pots on the tabletop , and tall candles burned at even intervals .
Despite the table’s seating capacity , at the moment there were only five of us : me , Uncle Milton , Esau , and an older couple who looked to be in their sixties .
Esau took a seat at the head of the table , the older couple to his right , and indicated that Uncle Milton and I should sit to his left .
Uncle Milton took the first available chair , and I seated myself next to him .
A long row of empty chairs stretched away to my left .
“Milton , Henry , I would like you to meet Spencer and Doris , ” Esau said , gesturing one furry arm toward the older couple .
Uncle Milton exchanged pleasantries with our new acquaintances .
I nodded and tried to smile .
That was it for the introductions .
Esau did not bother to elaborate on who these two were nor did he explain to them who we were .
Trevor arrived a few moments later , with a serving lady right on his heels .
Helen , I presumed .
He seated himself next to me while the server began to pass out cups of soup .
I looked into my bowl , found it to be almost entirely broth , with pieces of celery floating in it .
“Is anybody else joining us ? ” I asked , after everyone began eating .
Esau cocked his head to one side .
“It’s just us , I’m afraid.” “What about the young girl ? ” “What girl would that be ? ” “The one I saw in the foyer .
The one that was watching me.” Esau drummed his fingers on his glass and regarded me for a moment .
Then he chuckled .
“Have we taken on another guest ? ” He looked around at the other assembled guests .
Slight nods of heads and confused expressions were his only response .
“The blonde-haired girl in the blue dress .
She was sitting on the steps just now.” I stole a glance at my uncle .
“Didn’t you see her when you grabbed my arm ? ” Uncle Milton stiffened and shook his head .
He was giving me a very clinical and detached kind of look , and then he met Esau’s eyes , and something passed between them , some kind of knowing but unspoken exchange .
It was a look that said , essentially , “Now you see it for yourself.” What exactly had Uncle Milton told Esau about me ?
How much had he revealed ?
“There are no young girls in this house , ” Esau said at last .
There is a certain kind of patronizing tone that adults often use when speaking to children , the kind that makes me want to punch people in the face .
That particular tone crept into Esau’s voice as he answered me .
Looking over , I noticed that Trevor seemed upset .
A deep frown creased his face , and I couldn’t tell for sure , but I thought he might have been fighting back tears .
The conversation at the table picked up , the soup bowls were cleared , and we were on to salads .
“What’s wrong ? ” I whispered to Trevor while the adults were engrossed in meaningless conversation .
He looked up at me .
His bottom lip quivered .
“They don’t like you , ” he said .
“You mean them ? ” I gestured to the adults seated around us .
He shook his head .
“No .
Them.” He pointed overhead , toward the second floor , and again I could just make out the sound of the pitter patter of many small feet .
3 After supper , Helen began clearing dishes and the adults went into a parlor to smoke their pipes .
Trevor and I found ourselves alone at the long table .
I watched Helen stack the plates , and noted that she never once made eye contact with me .
In fact , she went out of her way to avoid meeting my gaze .
She was an older lady , not quite elderly , but definitely approaching that stage .
Her face appeared at once stern but serene , as if she had only harsh words to say but was content to keep them to herself .
At this point , the baby was only a fetus and still growing day by day .
We were on the verge of discovering if we were going to have a boy or girl when it started happening .
I’m sorry , just give me a moment .
This is where the hard part comes in………… Around the same time I had the idea of a child introduced into my life , the nation was swept with news talking about a new disease that had recently been discovered in remote areas of Tanzania .
I only caught a glimpse of a few of these reports , but from what I saw , it was pretty serious .
People were dying at alarming rates , and there were various reports of people eating one another .
I remember seeing a picture of the guy behind it all : He was a man , about thirty years of age , and all of his pictures featured him in a lab coat .
He had well kept grey hair and a trimmed beard .
His face held a smile of pure insanity that spread from ear to ear .
The reports said he adapted this new disease from animal testing and began illegal human testing with it .
He captured a group of locals and underwent experimentation .
That wasn’t where the danger truly lied ; it became a hazard to society , and later to the world , when one of the test subjects escaped into a large city nearby .
The disease spread like wildfire .
Over the next few weeks , more and more reports were coming out about the disease and what it did to people once it got ahold of them .
One night , as my wife was putting Scraps to sleep in his doggy bed , I saw the most disturbing report up to that point .
Tanzania , along with all of its surrounding countries , were being evacuated .
Various videos showed empty streets full of chaos and destruction , with occasional infected people running about .
The infected featured in the videos were far from view as the crews kept their distance from the roaming beasts .
I couldn’t really see them clearly ; it just seemed like a bunch of blurry , specter thin ghosts were running to and fro , flying angrily at any moving object that crossed their paths .
It wasn’t real to me until I saw a close-up of an infected .
There were before and after pictures of a little girl that looked to be ten years of age .
Her before picture showed a lovely looking girl with nice brown hair and green eyes .
She was wearing a blue sundress and had a smile of pure joy on her face .
I almost want to vomit thinking about how the disease ravaged her body , transforming her into a hideous creation beyond comprehension .
The after picture still haunts my dreams to this day .
It serves as a reminder of my ignorance , the damage the disease caused to my life and the lives of others , and the hopelessness that I still feel in my heart .
It’s as if a fresh dagger is plunged into my chest every single day .
Her skin was solid white , making her a walking ghost .
Her skin was broken in various places where pus and blood were seeping out .
Her brown hair had turned white in a void of color and was falling out of her head .
Saliva wasn’t dripping from her mouth , or if it was , it was a green slime that seemed to cover everything it touched in its filth .
She could no longer stand up straight ; her posture forced her into a contorted position that gave her a demonic presence in the photo .
What scared me the most were her eyes ; they had no pupils and were white with an insatiable desire to feed .
I would go on , but I don’t think my stomach could handle it .
I think I’m used to it now , but at that time I could imagine no greater evil .
A few weeks later was when the real fear , and my horrible present , came to be .
My wife had just gone to our doctor to find out the sex of our baby .
It was almost like a birthday to us ; we had a cake and a full course meal prepared for when she would return with the good news .
We were gon na to find out first , and then proceed to tell all of our loved ones of the new joy soon to enter the world .
I’d taken work off that day because absolutely nothing would interfere with the relaying of the fact that I would either have a pretty princess of a girl , or a manly brat of a boy .
Clearly , I wanted a girl first .
I’d always wanted to have a girl first , mostly because I liked to take care of girls .
It always made me feel important and needed .
I had years of practice caring for a wife whose beauty shone brighter than any diamond I could put on her finger .
I miss the moment of that day , when joy and excitement had completely taken over my senses .
I felt numb in the best way possible .
I’d need to feel that numbness for what would happen that day .
About fifteen minutes after she’d left , I was sitting on the couch , dwelling on the fact that I would soon be a father .
I flipped on the television and began to skip through the channels .
To my surprise , every channel I went to was broadcasting a news report about the continuing infection .
It didn’t really catch my attention at first , but after getting to channel three hundred and forty seven , I figured I might as well see what was going on .
I think It’s very interesting how a person’s life can be turned completely upside down with a simple news report .
The local anchorman didn’t look his usual professional self .
He looked as if he hadn’t bothered to dress up at all that day .
Then the report began .
I don’t really remember much of the report , but I do remember two specific details : an outbreak had begun in my own hometown not twenty minutes ago .
What’s worse is the fact that the sentence that followed stated it began near the office my wife had gone to see our doctor at .
I panicked .
I threw on my coat and jumped into my car .
I could only think one thing : I had to reach my wife and child at all costs .
I told myself she would never become the abomination I had seen on the news a few weeks ago .
I sped down the streets .
I don’t recall how many red lights I blasted through on the way to the hospital entrance .
I only remember smacking the side of the car against a street dumpster as I took a sharp turn onto a main street .
However , I never made it to that hospital entrance .
Upon entering the parking lot , I was stopped by a large barricade of police cars surrounded by various officers holding shotguns .
I got out of the car and made a run for the side entrance covered by less police .
I was stopped short by a sharp pain against the side of my head .
Next thing I knew , I was being pulled out of a bush by two large officers .
My head was pounding audibly as sounds of wailing sirens filled the air .
When I was on my feet , the officers told me that I couldn’t go in because the infection had spread rapidly inside , and there was little chance of survivors .
I’ve never begged so much in my life .
I threw myself to my knees and begged them to step in and find my wife .
They eyed me with unfeeling stares and said they’d never be stupid enough to send in any forces to save a lost cause , let alone a citizen that was likely monster feed .
Still , I begged ; I bribed , I cursed , and I threatened until I choked on my words .
I couldn’t believe that they’d let the people I loved sit in that monster den and die like innocent sheep given over to the slaughter .
Then the officers said they couldn’t help me because they hadn’t received word from the captain to go in yet .
Upon seeing how useless those guys were , I turned to my right and saw a broken window a few feet away .
I jumped to my feet and made a run for it .
I guess I still had some youth left in me from my days in sports ; I looked back and saw the officers at least seven steps behind me as I crashed through the window and landed on the hospital floor .
I was in .
I never expected to land in a pool of blood .
I never even knew a person could bleed so much .
Through the fractured light the room , I could see the blood before and upon me , as well as the silhouette of the hospital receiving room I landed in .
I picked myself up and walked into the hallway .
The echoes of the officer’s voices chased me , warning me not to tread any further .
It was pitch black ; I felt along the wall , trying to feel my way through the dark .
The stench of death was everywhere ; its noxious toxins seeped into my nose and mouth , almost making me vomit at every step .
I made my way down the main hall , going the opposite way of the lighted exit signs at each turn .
I knew where to go , even in that dark , cold prison .
I‘d been there plenty of times with my wife ; we frequently visited her doctor to keep an eye on her precious cargo .
I reconstructed the floor plan in my head : Three hallways , two flights of stairs , and one door at the end of the hallway .
I made it through two of the pitch black hallways when I heard growling behind me .
Even though I couldn’t see anything , I could feel the evil presence nearby .
I turned in the darkness , hoping my eyes would find the beast behind me .
They searched the dark , but were unable to find anything .
I asked the darkness , “Is anyone there ? ” What an idiot .
It located me immediately .
I could feel the tension break as the footsteps clapped in my direction .
I turned and ran , with all my might .
“Dammit !
Damn these seatbelts !
Dammit !
Dammit !
Dammit ! ” Cheryl’s heart sledge-hammered so loud and hard within her ears she couldn’t hear herself cursing the one object that could make the difference between life and death .
Cheryl was panting now , alternately crying and screaming .
Without thinking , she tried the ignition before looking to see the light almost upon her and to hear the long low drone of the train’s whistle .
With that glimpse into the light , Cheryl resigned herself to the inevitable .
She inhaled deeply and raised her hands to shield her eyes from the impact .
There was no impact .
No crunch of steel and flying glass as the train went through her as if she weren’t there .
Cheryl was suspended with her head thrown back , hands up , lungs filled with air ready to scream , eyes and mouth wide open .
Cheryl Rainesford felt a cold rush of air as the engine of the train passed through her .
She felt she was dreaming or watching a movie in slow motion where she couldn’t move .
She felt the vibration of the train’s wheels on the track .
She heard the clickety-click-click-clickety rattle of the wheels rolling beneath her .
She saw the conductor - a skeleton in a pair of denim coveralls , a red plaid kerchief around his bony neck , a conductor’s cap atop his skull .
He was shoveling coal into the fire-bin .
When he saw Cheryl going by , he kindly stood and tipped his hat to her revealing straggles of wispy white hair and long , grimy fingernails extending from the bones of his fingers .
Cheryl saw the conductor-skeleton bend over and resume stoking the fire .
She felt the acrid taste of burning coal on the back of her throat .
In the dining car , skeleton waiters in black pants , white starched shirts , and black bow ties served skeletons seated at tables .
Each patron was dressed differently , but all had straggles of wispy white hair and long grimy fingernails .
As each table passed by Cheryl , the seated skeletons slowly turned their heads toward her .
Some nodded in her direction , their empty sockets seeming to actually see her , their teeth locked into an eternal grin .
Some raised their bony hands in a wave and some pointed to her , looked at their companions and threw their skulls back in mock laughter .
The clink of china cups , the mixture of voices in intermingled conversations , even the sounds of mock laughter all reached Cheryl’s ears ; muffled , sounds coming from a coffin six feet under hard blackened earth .
Those sounds , coupled with the aromas of coffee , after-dinner cigars and brandy , followed Cheryl as the dining car gave way to the sleeper cars .
Most of the occupants in those sleeper cars were wrapped in their bedsheets resembling , to Cheryl’s horrified eyes , death shrouds .
One skeleton was propped up on its pillows , its hollow sockets focused on an open , yellowed newspaper .
One skeleton was seated on the john .
One skeleton lay upon a bed , its legs bent at the knees .
Between those legs was another skeleton .
Their pelvic bones thrust against each other , clicking in rhythm with the clicking of the train wheels .
They turned their eyeless sockets to Cheryl , their lurid grins mocking the grotesque rendition of the human sexual act .
Cheryl longed desperately to vent the pent-up scream locked within her lungs .
She tasted the smell of cow dung .
She wanted to close her glued-open eyelids .
The teeth of the cow skeleton munched aimlessly on the dried hay in its cargo car .
Its empty sockets looked Cheryl’s way .
A cat skeleton gnawed its bony paw in a corner .
A hobo sat against the far wall ; tattered jeans and plaid shirt billowed about its slender frame .
Its bony knee was propped up with a bony arm cast across it .
A yellowed , hand-rolled cigarette dangled from its tobacco-stained teeth .
Its eyeless sockets turned to Cheryl .
“Got a light ? ” it said , its voice as old and raspy as the white wisps of hair on its skull .
As the car with the hobo pulled away , Cheryl heard the hobo laughing .
The red caboose with its lone occupant rumbled through Cheryl .
The skeleton waved as it passed by Cheryl .
With the passing of the caboose , Cheryl was thrown forward in her seat and the air was pushed from her lungs so all she uttered was a small cry .
Whatever force had gripped her was done with her and had cast her aside like litter .
Cheryl’s forehead was covered with a thin sheen of cold sweat .
Her blouse and work smock were soaked with her own perspiration .
She held her pale and shaking hands in front of her face .
Beads of sweat stood out on the palms .
Cheryl looked down both sides of the track .
Nothing was there .
Not even the green light down the tracks was on .
The clanging of the warning bells stopped and the crossbars lifted .
Cheryl sat in shock , gasping for breath .
When the car started of its own volition , Cheryl screamed .
*** Cheryl glanced at the clock on the wall .
Ten minutes to go .
As she returned her attention to the table she was wiping down , her hand brushed against a water glass sitting there , filled with water and a few ice chips .
Cheryl watched as the glass tipped over .
Julia caught the falling glass in her hand .
Water and one or two ice chips escaped the glass .
“Honey , are you okay ? ” Julia asked .
She replaced the glass onto the table .
“You’ve had a case of the dropsies ever since I came on shift.” “I’m okay .
Really.” Cheryl didn’t sound convincing , even to herself .
“I think I may have a cold or the flu coming on .
I’ve been kind of fog-headed all night.” “Maybe you should drink some orange juice.” Julia walked through the swinging doorway behind the counter .
“I’ll get you some.” Cheryl didn’t protest .
It was best not to say much .
“Here ya go , hon.” Julia stood holding the glass to a Cheryl whose eyes were someplace else .
“Hey , Cheryl ? ” Cheryl snapped out of that place and looked at the glass of orange juice .
“Drink this , honey.” Julia’s voice was compelling .
“Maybe it’ll make you feel better.” Cheryl gulped down the orange juice , its bitter taste coating her tongue and throat .
She handed the glass back to Julia .
“Thanks.” Julia noticed Cheryl’s eyes .
They didn’t have their customary tired look .
There were many things Julia saw in those eyes , but it wasn’t that bone-tired weariness she was accustomed to .
Maybe Cheryl was coming down with something .
Julia placed the glass onto the countertop and looked at Cheryl .
“Maybe you should go on home .
You look a little pale.” “Do I ? ” Cheryl was barely conscious of her surroundings .
She could think of nothing except the train .
The train .
The train .
“Yeah .
Go on home .
Stop by the store and get yourself a gallon of orange juice and drink as much of it as you can before you go to bed .
Then put an extra blanket or two on the bed , bundle up underneath all that cover and sweat it out.” Cheryl smiled to herself .
Sweat it out .
Wasn’t that what she had been doing all these years waiting for her mother to die ?
Cheryl shivered from the chill the thought sent down her spine .
Julia saw that shiver .
“That does it .
If you don’t leave right now , I’m going to personally drive you home.” That thought was as frightening as it was ludicrous to Cheryl .
But I listened intently and could hear it was methodic .
After a moment I was sure is was the sound of digging .
“Hello , ” I called out a couple of times but there was no answer but the sound continued – – a dull repetitive slicing of shovel into moist earth .
The twists and turns of the maze were exasperating but I was determined to reach the source of the noise .
Then all at once I turned into a small clearing and saw Maria , completely naked .
Her skin was ghostly white in the green lights that lit the labyrinth .
Even then she was beautiful .
She kept digging a small hole , oblivious to my presence .
I walked up to her and said , “Maria , ” and gently touched her elbow .
I startled her .
She jerked forward , towards me and tripped backwards into the hole she had been digging .
I felt a deep chill and dark sense that I broken something I wasn’t supposed to touch .
She squinted at me .
“Matt ? ” she murmured .
“No , ” I said slowly .
She looked disappointed .
“Why are you digging ? ” I asked .
She hesitated and looked around .
“I don’t know , ” she whispered .
“Where am I ? ” Suddenly she stood straight up in the shallow hole and began frantically wiping the palm of her hand as though she were looking for some kind of answer there .
She stopped just as quickly and raised her hand slowly to allow the light to catch some kind of symbol drawn on the palm of her hand .
I saw her eyes widen in abject terror as if she was watching her own shocking death on the palm of her hand .
I think she stopped breathing .
Her mouth was wide open like she wanted to scream .
She looked down at her body .
She began running her hands up her bare thighs to her vagina .
I saw something odd there and Maria’s expression changed from horror to disgust , like she was about to vomit .
I tried to grasp what could possibly be protruding from between her legs .
It slowly started oozing out covered in blood .
It dropped to the ground .
It was a bulbous vial full of what must have only been blood .
Her eyes looked like they would bulge out of the sockets .
She collapsed in a hysterical fit and began to scream .
I reached down to comfort her but she only screamed louder , transgressing into semi-coherent ranting in English and Spanish .
“Rip the zipper , separate my flesh , fuck me , she won’t be born… yellow , yellow , yellow fucking teeth ! ” Over and over again convulsing wildly until all at once she passed out .
I wrapped her in the red rain jacket I had come to The Lost and Found for .
Suddenly Mike appeared out of the dark gloom and in a flurry of movement he scooped Maria up and whisked her into the passages of the labyrinth .
A bizarre satyr carrying a limp maiden into the night best describes the unreal image etched into my eyes .
“Did Dr. Mike try to draw a symbol on your hand ?
Where was Matt ?
Was it a syringe ? ” Over and over I would be asked these same questions by my friends , the families , the Panamanian police , but most of all I questioned myself .
Over and over again , while I tried to forget , while I literally washed the splattered blood to remove all signs of the sick horror at The Lost and Found .
I want to put this to rest and move on with my life even if I can never return to a completely normal life .
So once and for all I am going to plunge into the dark corners of the garden of my memories .
In the following pages I use the words of those involved ; the blogs , the emails and personal diaries and when I have to ; my words .
With these pages I take the shovel and I will bury this tragedy forever .
This is what happened .
Get Out If You Can !
By Dr. Michael Anderson My hotel concierge warned me not to look for her .
She was in what he described as a somewhat sordid area of Panama City .
I did my best to take his advice .
But I couldn’t get my needs satisfied through traditional means .
I was desperate .
I was told I could find her in Chinatown .
The actual street is called Salsipuedes .
Seventeenth Century maps of Old Panama show that this street bore the same name then as it does now .
But it is not so much a name as a warning : Salsipuedes literally means Get Out If You Can .
And ‘street’ is a bit of a misnomer… Salsipuedes is more of a labyrinth of contradiction .
There are wooden kiosks selling almost everything - from hand woven textiles and cheap leather to electronics and decades old romance novels .
National Geographic magazines from the 50’s sit beside porn from the 80’s .
It was on Salsipuedes , I was certain , that I would find her – the Voodoo priestess of former dictator/CIA informant turned drug kingpin , General Manuel Noriega .
It is easy to miss the dark and narrow opening of the street .
You are likely to continue along Avenida Central to Parque Santa Ana , one of Panama’s more colorful areas and overlooked attractions .
Here you can see Kuna Indians in their colorful traditional dress feeding squadrons of hungry pigeons as diablos rojos roar by .
If you have a seat near the gazebo facing the landmark Café Coca-Cola you will see old rail tracks that lead down to the colonial white-washed neighborhood of Casco Viejo .
But if you hang a right by mistake , you enter the real area of danger -- the poverty stricken , violent neighborhood of Chorillo .
But past the dangerous barrio , only a few hundred meters further and over a barbed wired fence , there is a pleasant green neighborhood that looks like small town America .
In fact , until very recently , it was American territory - the Panama Canal Zone .
The U.S. invasion of Panama was less of an invasion than an expensive manhunt with heavy firepower .
Bullet holes scar the dark , ominous high-rises of Chorillo -- vestiges from when the US came to look for Noriega at the Comandancia , his fortified headquarters .
But he was already on the run .
Uncle Sam’s boys continued their search at his officer’s club , beach home and luxury houses .
Each place they destroyed when they discovered he was not there .
Panama has left them in ruins as a kind of way to flip him the bird .
The officers’ club in Casco Viejo , however , was temporarily used as a location for a party hosted by a Bond villain in the movie Quantum of Solace .
At one of his luxury homes they found some peculiar items .
According to U.S. military reports , Noriega left behind porn , a portrait of Hitler , an assortment of books , beads , stones , cocaine , a Rosicrucian portrait of Jesus , plaster statues , dried food `` offerings '' and an altar made by his Brazilian Voodoo priestess .
They also found a freezer full of voodoo candles .
Each bundle of candles was wrapped in a piece of paper with one of his enemy’s names on it .
His enemies included Dick Cheney , then the US Secretary of Defense , and the President , George Bush Sr. , with whom Noriega was connected through the C.I.A ( Noriega was a paid informant when Bush was the Director of the C.I.A . )
If the candles were meant to somehow bring these adversaries down , they failed , as most of these politicians or their sons made great comebacks .
Many of Noriega’s items can still be purchased today , a short distance from his headquarters -- in that esoteric maze of ‘Salsipuedes’ .
Noriega left behind his voodoo and his voodoo priestess in his time of trouble and literally turned to the Church .
He had been hiding at the Vatican Embassy when American G.I.s set up across the street where Multi Centro , a huge Colombian owned shopping mall , now sits .
The Americans didn’t fire guns at the Embassy of the Holy See but rather blasted Guns and Roses´ .
Noriega eventually had enough of Welcome to the Jungle , and surrendered .
With Noriega behind bars in Florida , the Americans had no interest in his Brazilian `` mama , '' or priestess .
But I had to find her .
My desperation came three days after island hopping in Bocas Del Toro .
An excruciating rash had turned up on my calves and ankles .
I went to three pharmacies .
Usually , even if they don’t know what you have , the pharmacists sell you some kind of mysterious drug .
One pharmacist swore that my rash was actually the result of insect bites , but still , none of the pharmacists offered any kind of remedy .
After a week , I was starting to lose my mind .
A friend suggested that I go to ‘Salsipuedes , ’ so I left my watch at home , took only a copy of my passport , mustered up some courage , and ventured into the crowded alleyway .
Before I arrived at La Tienda Esoterica , I could smell the incense drifting down the street .
Inside my eyes took time to adjust to the darkness , but they finally wrapped around angelic statues of The Virgin Mary sitting next to dark clay skulls .
Penthouse magazines next to Good Housekeeping .
I understood that Salsipuedes is not a large scale voodoo shop .
There isn’t any one dogma unifying things – there is as much Catholic as there is Santería .
He wore a ball chain necklace with two metal circles attached .
“Dog tags , ” Stan said .
“What do they say ? ” Anne rubbed her finger over the embossed engravings .
“Jordan Grant , ” she read .
“Service number 293097.” She looked at the unconscious figure .
“Hello Jordan Grant .
Welcome to Haven , the safest place on Earth.” A stiff breeze blew a gap in the thick fog revealing a harbor city .
Broken hulls and overturned yachts lay scattered in the dock .
Dirty smoke rose from a dozen places , licking the sky .
A sign proudly boasting beach accolades lay half-buried in the sand .
Hundreds of human figures jostled for position at the water’s edge , watching the floating meal with hungry eyes .
Their cacophonous low groans a single wail of death .
2 .
Mary poured the soup into a chipped ceramic bowl .
Though they usually ate out of empty tin cans , Mary , incapable of letting go of the Old World entirely , insisted the guest use the fine china .
She placed it on the tray beside a cracked glass of water and a heel of hard bread .
“When do you suppose he’ll wake up ? ” Mary asked .
She had a full head of black hair and jingling jewelry .
Her eyes were emerald green with flecks of gold that seemed to catch every nuance of movement .
She was short – the only member of the crew who could look Anne in the eye .
“I don’t know , ” Anne said .
“He’s been through a lot .
All we can do now is take care of him and hope for the best.” “I saw his fortune , ” Mary said .
Anne glanced at the battered pack of Tarot cards that lay on the table .
“What did you see ? ” “Death .
But not his .
He is a man surrounded by it , I fear .
Be careful.” “Speaking of being careful , how are we doing for food ? ” Mary gave her a look that said , “Don’t ask.” “How long do you think we can last ? ” “I’ve already used the cabbage three times to make soup .
We’ll soon be better off drinking water – which is another problem we have .
It hasn’t rained in weeks .
Our supplies are running low.” “We could boil our socks.” Mary screwed up her face .
“If we do , you can have Stan’s .
I swear sometimes he keeps a hidden stash of cheese in there.” Anne picked up the tray and crossed the small living area .
She almost dropped it as Stacey flew past , chasing Jessie .
“Careful ! ” Anne said , but they were too busy playing to listen .
They had come across the pair hanging on for dear life to a buoy .
Despite their different appearances – Stacey had red auburn hair with dark eyes , Jessie had blonde with light eyes – they had taken them for sisters .
Jessie was thirteen going on fifty , a mother figure to five-year-old Stacey .
They never talked about where they came from , which led them to suppose it couldn’t have been anywhere good .
Anne came to a short corridor that split into four rooms , three cabins and an engine bay .
On rainy days she leaked , and the slightest breeze could make her list like she was a fairground ride .
Rust scaled the walls , creating large patches of brown flakes that Stacey used to draw pictures in with her finger .
In many places the wall panels were held in place by a single rivet .
She was falling to pieces , but she was their home .
Perched on a stool in the corridor , Joel read a water damaged copy of Harry Potter .
It looked like a children’s flip book in his massive hands .
“Feeding time again ? ” he said , not looking up .
“The body needs to eat if it’s going to heal.” “Do you want me to come in with you today ?
He might like to see a fresh face.” “He hasn’t even seen mine yet .
Besides , it’s better if he sees one face when he wakes up.” “All right .
Let me know if you need any help.” “I will .
Enjoy the book .
By the way , Professor Quirrel’s the bad guy.” Joel’s eyes and mouth made wide disbelieving circles as Anne pushed the door open with her backside and stepped into the tiny room .
A single bed took up half the space , where Jordan lay asleep .
Anne and Mary had cleaned him and taken care of his wounds , stitching closed his cuts , cracking his broken nose back into place , and applying the meager medicines and salves they had found on board .
His fever was gone and his heart beat stronger , but he hadn’t woken up yet .
Beside the bed sat a rickety old chair on which Anne had placed clean folded clothes .
The T-shirt lay half hanging off the pile as if it had been knocked off in haste .
She eyed it with curiosity , and then turned to Jordan .
“You can quit the act , ” Anne said .
“I know you’re awake.” The man didn’t move .
“How long have you been conscious ? ” He still didn’t answer .
“I suppose you don’t want this soup and bread then ?
I’ll come back later when you’re ready to talk.” She turned to the door .
“Wait.” Jordan’s head sat up at a sharp angle , his bloodshot eyes half-open under heavy lids .
“What gave me away ? ” “Your clothes are messed up .
I folded them for you and no one else comes into the room .
It doesn’t take Sherlock Holmes.” He smiled .
It crinkled the corner of his eyes and mouth .
“Rookie mistake .
I woke up and tried to get dressed when I heard voices outside the door.” She put the folded clothing on the side table and sat on the chair with the tray on her knees .
“Are you hungry ?
I brought some soup.” “Starving.” He levered himself up into a sitting position on shaky arms .
“How long have I been here ? ” “Three days.” “You’ve been taking care of me ? ” “It’s no trouble.” “Thank you.” He looked around the room .
“Is it just me or is the room swaying ? ” “You’re on a boat called Haven .
We’ve been at sea now for twelve days .
We found you floating at sea.” “Floating around ?
I never was much of a swimmer.” “Here , ” Anne said , filling a spoon with soup and raising it to his mouth .
“That’s okay .
I can do it.” “Are you sure ? ” “I think so.” She sat the tray on his lap .
He picked up the spoon .
It shook in his fingers with the effort , and dropped , clattering on the tray , scattering soup droplets over the bedspread .
“Sorry , ” he said .
“I’ll clean it up.” “The same way you fed yourself ? ” Anne said with a smile .
“No thanks.” “I must be weaker than I thought.” Anne picked up the spoon , dipped it into the bowl , brushed it against the lip so it wouldn’t drip , and brought it to his mouth .
“You’ve had a lot of practice at this , ” he said , swallowing it with visible effort .
“Three days’ worth.” “How far are we from port ? ” “Not far .
Why ? ” “I need to get back to my barracks.” “Barracks ?
You were in the army ?
Stan will be happy.” “Who’s Stan ? ” “One of the guys who lives on the boat .
We’ve had a pool going , about which armed services you came from , navy , army or air .
Stan gets an extra helping of soup tonight.” “At least someone has benefitted from me being here.” He saw something on Anne’s wrist .
“What’s that ? ” “It’s nothing , ” Anne said , hastily pulling her sleeve down .
“Let me see.” Anne looked away .
“Please.” After a pause she pulled up her sleeve revealing purple and yellow discolorations .
Jordan laid his hand gently on her forearm , his fingers lining up with the bruises .
“I did this ? ” He sounded horrified .
“By accident.” “I’m sorry.” “It’s my fault .
I shouldn’t have got so close.” She refilled the spoon and raised it to his lips , but he turned away from her hand .
“You need to eat.” “I’m not hungry.” “You said you were starving.” He still wouldn’t look at her .
I guess “The Corps” was telling the truth .
Everyone looked around my age .
One by one we all rose to our feet .
Everyone tried to find someone from their own country to be near or at least someone that spoke their language .
I tried to find a perimeter of wherever we were .
A few guys tried to talk to me but I just ignored them .
I was n't here to make friends .
I was asked to be a part of something big .
After walking for almost half an hour I realized that I had yet to reach a fence .
I looked back and saw everyone being rounded up by large vans and jeeps .
I heard shouting and a few shots fired before gas was used to disperse the crowd .
I ran towards the group to find out exactly what was going on when a spotlight blinded me .
I shielded my eyes and squinted in an attempt to see who this was .
“What made you leave the group ? ” a deep voice shouted over a loud speaker .
I stopped squinting and made my way towards the light .
When I heard the sound of a gun being cocked I stopped for a moment before continuing .
“Halt ! ” I did not .
I took a deep breath and let it out of my nose causing a whistle .
“Halt or we will fire ! ” My father always said that when confronted by an enemy to never talk .
When you stay silent they tend to give away more information than they intended .
Like now .
I know that there is more than one person because they said , “We will fire ! ” Also , they asked why I left the group , which means that they were watching me , and are in some way associated with this program .
“One more step and you 're dead , bitch ! ” I turned my back and began walking away from the light .
“Christ , Hecksford .
You really are a hard ass.” I turned and saluted the light .
“At ease , soldier.” A large Black man jumped from the vehicle and made his way towards me .
He had a soldier 's uniform on but it was unlike any I had ever seen .
It was completely black .
Understand me when I say “completely black , ” I mean that in every sense of the word .
Later I found out that this was a new material made specifically for this group and graduates of the program .
It reflected no light and made no sound when the soldier walked towards me .
He wore a skullcap with a silver logo of an eagle with a hammer and sword crossed behind it .
This was either a perversion of the American or a pirate 's flag .
I was n't sure which .
“I 've heard a lot about you , Hex , ” the soldier said .
“Name 's Ronald Jones .
Everyone calls me ‘L.T.’” “Sir , pleased to meet your acquaintance , sir ! ” I say while saluting .
“That ‘sir’ shit ends here , Hex , ” he replied while laughing at me .
He removed one of those short black cigarettes that “The Corps” had earlier and inhales sharply .
He does n't exhale .
“And call me , L.T.” “Why 'L.T ' ? ” I ask .
“They gave it to me years back , ” he says .
“It stands for ‘Long Term.’ I have seen folks come and go through this program .
I am one of the first to graduate and not only stay , but also not die .
I 'm pretty damned hard to shoot let alone kill , ” he says while chuckling .
“Why were those people back there gassed ? ” I ask .
“They did n't do anything.” “How do you know ? ” L.T asked .
“You are off wandering all fucking Lorne Greene 's Wild Wilderness style while that shit was going on .
You do n't know why they were sprayed so you do n't know whether or not they did anything .
So stop assuming shit.” “They were sprayed ? ” I asked .
I felt like an idiot asking so many questions .
“Yeah , ” L.T said .
“We got ta spray all y’all before you get to camp .
Shit , if yo ass got cancer thatstuff will kill it.” “You have a cure for cancer ? ” I ask .
“I do n't believe that.” “Wait till you see the cure for A.I.D.S , ” L.T says .
“You wo n't believe how simple it is .
Now get your ass in the jeep .
We got ta get you sprayed , spayed , and paid.” The ride back to the group is spent listening to L.T sing to himself .
He is like no soldier I have ever seen .
The way he speaks , walks , and thinks is like some kind of cartoon character .
When he get to the group most of them have been rounded up and sent away on various jeeps .
L.T motions for me to jump out and get in line .
I am about to salute him when he raises his eyebrow and smiles .
I nod and leave him .
I join the longest line in the hope of getting more time to think .
I see two masked soldiers looking at me then nodding to each other before making their way over to me .
I pretend to not notice them when one of them grabs my ass .
I do n't move .
The other laughs as he reaches for my breast .
Out of the corner of my eye I see L.T watching all of this .
Whether or not he put them up to this to test me I do n't know , but there was no way I came all this way to get drugged , groped , and harassed .
If that were what I wanted I would have gone to USC .
Just as he is about to grab my right breast I bring my right hand up sharply , breaking his small and ring fingers .
He pulls back , his screams muffled by his mask .
The other soldier rears back for a punch and I sweep his forward facing leg , right at his ankle .
I do n't hear it snap but he falls down grabbing it .
A gunshot stops me from kicking him while he is down .
“Goddamn , Hex ! ” L.T shouts from his jeep while holding a rifle I have never seen before .
“Where the fuck you learn that shit ? ” He leaps from the jeep and walks over to the two guards who try to compose themselves .
“You two pussies just got took down by an 18 year old chick from South Central L.A that graduated from basic training just six days ago .
What do you have to say for yourselves ? ” The two guards looked down at their feet .
The one with the hurt ankle shifted his weight while the other held his broken fingers .
“Hex , what you want me to do to these dumb fucks ? ” “Nothing , ” I reply .
“Bullshit , ” L.T says .
“We got ta do something .
Ca n't just have motherfuckers running 'round grabbing ladies titties and shit .
Again , what should I do with these fools ? ” “Fine , kill them , ” I say .
A moment later their heads disappear .
“Now get on that jeep and let 's get you in the program , ” L.T says as the bodies are dragged away before I can turn back and see who took them .
This feels like some sort of dream .
Did I really just cause two men to get murdered because they tried to touch me ?
I feel as if I should do something .
Cry , scream , or shout .
But I can’t .
Not because I do n't want to .
But because I don’t need to .
I have dealt with men like these since I was 8 years old .
I never wanted them punished by anyone 's hands other than mine and eventually the Lord’s .
It seems that things do n't always work out the way you want .
“What 's going to happen to their bodies ? ” I ask no one in particular .
Afterwards , she’d puked her brains out , but it hadn’t changed how annoyed she’d been at me .
I guess that ratting her out hadn’t really helped either .
The only reason I’d blown the whistle was because my aunt had backed me into a corner when she’d noticed that her bottle of Patron was missing .
I wasn’t very good at lying , and she’d known that .
“I’m sure she’s fine , ” I said , thinking about all of the other times Melody had pulled stuff .
“I mean , she’s eighteen now anyway .
She probably crashed at Taylor’s or Veronica’s.” After getting wasted , I wanted to say , but held back .
“Nope .
Jody called them .
They haven’t seen her since last night.” I yawned .
“Well , where did they go ? ” My mom pushed her dark bangs to the side .
“They went to over to Shore Lake to go watch some rock band play.” That was surprising .
Although Shore Lake was a tourist spot , it wasn’t exactly known for concerts or live bands .
“Where ? ” “I think the place was called Nightshade or something .
Anyway , they said she’d told them that someone else was giving her a ride home.” I’d heard of Club Nightshade , which was in the next town over , but had never actually been there .
A lot of the kids in school had raved about the place .
Some of them had even snuck in with fake I.D.’s when it wasn’t Teen-Night .
Supposedly , you could get anything in that place if you knew who to talk to – drugs , alcohol , even… sex .
“I didn’t know they had bands playing there .
I thought it was all hip-hop from the radio.” “I guess not.” She raised her eyebrows .
“Have you been to that place ? ” I rolled my eyes .
“No .
It’s definitely not my scene .
Besides , who has time for clubs when I barely have enough time for homework and studying ? ” I was a freshman at U.M.T .
and my life was filled with studying , homework , and more studying .
I barely had time to sleep or eat .
She stood back up .
“Well , maybe she met a boy…” I smirked .
“That’s what I’m thinking.” Plus , she had a reputation .
She went through more guys than I did paper .
“Well , I just wish she’d answer her mom’s phone calls and texts.” I decided to lay it on the table for her .
“Mom , look , I’m going to be honest – Melody is a major partier .
Heck , I know for a fact that last night wasn’t Teen-Night at that place .
So , she would have had to have gotten in with a fake I.D .
She probably drank and then went home with some horny jerk.” She scowled .
“Well , that certainly doesn’t make me feel any better.” “Sorry , but even you know that I’m probably right .
Did her friends say who was taking her home ? ” “No .
She wouldn’t say ; said it was a secret , but that she’d tell them later.” I frowned .
“Hmm… that’s kind of weird.” “I know .
Taylor seems to think that it might have been one of the guys in the band .
I guess she has a crush on the singer , and had been trying to get his attention the entire night.” “It probably worked , ” I said .
Melody had to be the prettiest girl in Beaver Creek .
With her blond hair , curves , and dazzling smile , she’d always been popular with the guys in school .
If she set her sights on someone at the club , chances were that they’d be putty in her hands .
“Boys in bands are trouble , ” she replied .
“Obviously , this just proves it.” “She’s not exactly an angel either , mom .
She’s probably in bed with him right now.” “Chelsey ! ” I shrugged .
“What ?
You know it’s true.” She sighed .
“I know .
I just don’t want to think about your cousin having sex.” I crawled back under my covers .
“I know , but I wouldn’t worry too much about Melody , mom .
If she was crushing on the singer , chances are she’s with him and not thinking about Aunt Jody right now.” “You’re probably right .
She is eighteen.” I yawned again .
“Just go back to bed , mom .
I’m sure she’ll be home in a couple of hours , puking and getting bawled out by Aunt Jody.” Chuckling , she touched my shoulder .
“I’m just glad that you’re responsible and don’t give me or your father problems like that.” I closed my eyes and smiled .
“You’re welcome .
Now let me sleep so I can get on with my humdrum life.” “It’s not humdrum , ” she protested .
“You’re preparing for the future.” I opened up one eye .
“Mom , it’s boring .
All I do is take tests and study , so that I can take more tests .
It’s kind of lame.” “You really think so ?
I don’t know , I’d love to go back to my college years , ” she replied wistfully .
“It’s where I met your father , you know.” I’d heard the story many times .
My mom had played hard-to-get and my dad had pursued her relentlessly , until she’d finally agreed to go out with him .
Five years later , they eloped in Hawaii , after she became pregnant with me .
“I know.” “Just hang in there , Chelsey .
We’re proud of you and it’s going to pay off someday .
Plus , if you’re going to be a Forensic Investigator , your life will eventually be anything but plain and boring.” “Yeah , I’m sure.” “Well , I’ll let you get back to bed , ” she said , squeezing my foot through the blanket .
“Make sure I’m up before seven , ” I called out as she walked out of my bedroom .
She turned around .
“I will .
I won’t be able to sleep until I hear from Jody.” After she closed my bedroom door , I thought about Melody .
Growing up , we’d been close , even though she had always been a little bossy .
Even at a young age , she’d always known exactly what she’d wanted and used everything she could to get her way .
Chances were , my cousin had gotten her way again , tonight , and was getting her freak on with that singer she’d been lusting after .
I had to admit , part of me was a little envious .
Chapter Two Chelsey When my alarm went off a couple of hours later , I dragged myself out of bed and took a hot shower .
Wiping the steam from the mirror , I glanced at my reflection – pale skin , long auburn hair , and hazel eyes .
I thought I was pretty average , except for the fact that I was barely five-feet and had a hard time finding shoes that fit , because my feet were so small .
I wore a size three and had a heck of a time shopping for shoes that didn’t light up or feature a pink pony .
After I slipped on a blue Henley and khakis , I grabbed a brush and pulled my hair up into a ponytail .
When I was finished in the bathroom , I grabbed my backpack and headed downstairs to the kitchen .
“Good morning , ” said my mom , who was sitting at the counter , drinking coffee behind her laptop .
“Morning , ” I said , opening up the refrigerator .
I cleared my throat .
“Heard anything from Aunt Jody yet ? ” “She hasn’t heard from your cousin yet.” I pulled the orange juice out and glanced at her .
There were shadows under her eyes and she looked worn out .
She’d obviously been up the entire night .
“Well , it’s still pretty early.” She removed her reading glasses and rubbed the bridge of her nose .
“Yeah , I know.” “Don’t worry , she’ll show up , ” I said , pouring myself a glass of juice .
“I hope so .
You know , it’s dangerous out there in the world , especially for women .
A guy could slip something into your drink , follow you home , rape –” “Yes , I know , ” I cut in .
I knew I was being snippy , but I’d already heard it many times before .
My mom was a court reporter and after hearing so many horrible cases , she was a little paranoid .
“You don’t have to tell me .
I’m one of the last people you need to worry about.” She reached over the counter and squeezed my hand .
“Chelsey , ” she said , staring into my eyes .
Two naked youths not much older than I blocked the entrance .
By their scent I knew them to be Loupes , and I growled deep in my throat at the intrusion .
`` Face us as a man , stranger , '' the elder boy commanded .
I rose to my feet but remained wolf .
The younger boy spoke .
`` Maybe it 's just a normal wolf . ''
The elder scoffed .
`` Ca n't you smell the stink on him ?
I said turn human , wolf . ''
Reluctantly , I did so .
I had not been wolf long enough to become comfortable with my nudity , and I stood covering myself as best I could .
`` Look at him , '' said the younger .
`` He 's smaller than I am ! ''
`` I am Fallon , '' said the older boy .
`` This is my brother Lucien .
Pray tell what are you doing on our land ? ''
`` I am outcast , '' I mumbled .
`` I mean no harm . ''
Fallon raised his eyebrows .
`` No ?
Then you wo n't mind moving along ? ''
`` I have no place to go . ''
`` You can not stay here , '' Fallon said .
`` Your presence is unwelcome and a threat .
You have two days . ''
Without another word , Fallon and Lucien turned and began walking away .
Within two steps , they had both turned wolf and disappeared .
That night I did in truth leave the cave .
I did not , however , leave Gvaudan .
-4- In all my watchings , I had found a young girl of great beauty who constantly tore my attention from the wolf family .
She had long red hair and spent her days in a field , tending cattle , sitting , dancing , singing ?
I watched her from afar , but wolf eyes see long .
I was entranced .
One day I decided I would hide in the tree she often sat beneath during the hottest part of the day .
It was now late spring and the sun had become lovely and hot during the day , though still chilly at night .
For clothes I stole from a neighbor 's clothesline , and before dawn I turned human , then donned the pilfered garments and shimmied up the tree .
A wide bough made for a fairly comfortable seat , and I waited for the young girl to arrive , as she did every day , at an hour past daybreak .
The bough had by then become less comfortable , the bark of the tree digging into my skin even through the breeches I had stolen .
The sight of her , however , made me numb to these small hurts .
She drove the cattle along with the help of her little dog .
She wore her usual green dress that day , with an apron .
Unsurprisingly , her dog barked once at the tree , then trotted off to lie in the grass .
She watched me constantly , but refused to come closer despite the girl 's words of encouragement .
The cattle as well spread themselves far from the tree .
From my perch , I had a lovely view of the girl 's dcolletage .
This alone kept me quiet for a long time .
Then , the pleasantness of the weather and the peacefulness of the view lulled me to an unexpected slumber .
I woke up when the ground hit me .
Once I finally regained my hearing - my ears rang from the blow to my head - all I heard was , `` Oh , my ... Oh , my ... Oh , my ... '' Over and over .
Once I could see again , I saw the red-haired girl 's face looming over mine .
I blinked at her and tried to smile .
`` Are you hurt ? ''
she asked , wringing her hands .
`` Oh , you 're bleeding ! ''
When I touched my fingers to my forehead , I felt a bit of slippery blood and a bruise welting up .
`` I feel fine . ''
`` Well , you gave me quite a fright ! ''
she huffs .
`` How long have you been up in that tree ? ''
I knew better than to tell her .
`` I do n't remember ...
I fell asleep there . ''
I blinked my eyes dopily and grinned up at her .
`` You are the most beautiful creature I 've ever seen . ''
She folded her arms .
`` You fell asleep in a tree ? ''
My dumb act was n't working .
Inching myself up on my elbows , I said , `` I sleep in the trees .
It 's safer that way .
You know , because of wolves . ''
`` Oh , that 's rich .
Wolves would n't attack people . ''
`` No ? ''
`` Not in the spring , anyway .
Perhaps in the dead of winter , when game is scarce ... Might attack a sheep , or a cow , but not a person .
You 're ... not from here , are you ?
Your accent is a little strange . ''
`` I 'm from the north , '' I said vaguely .
`` And wolves do too attack humans .
I 've seen it . ''
`` Perhaps northern wolves attack humans .
Do your parents sleep in trees also , or are you travelling alone ? ''
`` I 'm ... an orphan . ''
I glanced up at her to see her reaction .
Would she pity an orphan , or sneer at one ?
She sighed .
`` That would be the case .
You 'd best move along then .
My parents certainly do not need another mouth to feed , nor an apprentice , nor is my father likely to see you as a good match for me . ''
`` I was here first , '' I said .
`` Ha !
My family has been using this pasture for three generations , and I 've never seen the likes of you here before today . ''
I stand up , wobbling a bit .
I had fallen a bit harder than I 'd let on .
`` And who 's to say I 'd be wanting you for a wife ? ''
`` It does not matter if you want me , for I do not want you , some penniless orphan who sleeps in trees because he 's stupid . ''
`` Wolves eat people ! ''
I said loud enough for a flock of sparrows in the tree to flutter off , and for the dog to perk up its ears and issue a bark .
My fingers curled into fists .
I 'd not had much experience with dogs - we had always stayed far away from them , for when we did get near , most dogs tried to attack us .
Finally , it all blew up .
Gracie told Lydia that she needed to get away from Lydia herself !
The woman was stifling .
Gracie loved her grandmother , but was tired of being smothered and controlled .
She knew that she had pierced the woman’s soul , but she couldn’t take it back .
Gracie needed her own space and her own life .
Lydia had been angry beyond words , but managed to tell Gracie not to come back -- ever .
And she hadn’t .
Jeanette thought it horrendous of her to talk to their grandmother like that and told Gracie so .
That was the last contact she had had with her family until today .
Gracie had always thought that somehow she would make amends .
Now it was too late .
Lydia was gone .
It seemed unreal .
The strong force that dominated her life for so long was gone .
What would it be like to enter that house , suddenly void of Lydia’s forceful presence ?
Chapter Two Gracie pulled in the drive of her grandmother’s house at 1:30 pm , Sunday afternoon .
She tiredly got out of the car , relieved to finally get here and found the key in the mailbox where Jeanette had left it for her .
The house looked pretty much the same as it always had .
What a far cry from her shabby little apartment .
Gracie was mildly surprised to see that her pictures were still on the mantle along with Jeanette’s smiling visage .
Lydia may have cut me out of her life , but she still cared enough to want to see me , Gracie thought .
Instinctively , she made her way to her own room .
Or what used to be her room .
As she turned the light on , she saw that it remained unchanged .
Even some of her clothes were still left in the closet and chest of drawers .
She pulled out an old nightshirt , yellow with blue rose buds on it .
It used to be her favorite .
She undressed and put it on feeling comforted and slid under the heavy quilt on her bed .
It felt so good , so familiar .
That was when the tears finally came .
For the first time she could remember , she cried loud choking sobs .
It went on for several hours .
When she finally slid out of the bed in search of some coffee and something to eat , she caught a glimpse of herself in the bureau mirror .
Her dark hair was mussed from the bed and hung limply to her shoulders , as if it , too , was in mourning .
Her green eyes were bloodshot and her face was red and splotchy , but somehow , she felt a little better .
She padded down the hallway , quietly , though there was no one to disturb .
When she got to the kitchen , she found that there was enough in there to make herself a sandwich .
She took her coffee and sandwich into the living-room , looking around guiltily .
Gram never allowed them to eat in here and she half expected the woman to come into the room to lecture her .
It seemed to be the longest evening she had ever spent , alone in the empty house .
Gracie was glad when she looked up from the television to discover that it was bedtime .
***** The doorbell woke her the next morning .
Gracie knew that it had to be Jeanette .
She pulled on a robe and walked to the door .
She was pulled into a bear hug as her cousin enveloped her .
“Oh , Gracie , I’m so glad you are here , ” she said , as she finally let go .
“It’s good to see you , too .
You wan na put on some coffee ?
I’ll get dressed real quick.” Gracie knew she looked horrible .
Her eyes were sore from all the crying .
“Sure , ” Jeanette agreed and left toward the kitchen .
Gracie dressed quickly and did her best to cover her red blotchy face .
She pulled her thick , black hair into a ponytail and went to meet Jeanette in the kitchen .
“Where are the kids ? ” she asked , as she entered the room .
She saw that the coffee was done and grabbed a cup from the cabinet .
“I left them with the neighbors .
They offered to keep them today while we finalize the arrangements .
It’s all done , really .
I just wanted you to go over everything , just to make sure it was all right with you.” “I figured Gram had already taken care of everything , ” Gracie said and sat down at the table across from her cousin .
“She had for the most part .
Even down to what she was going to wear .
Pastor Rayburn will be giving a eulogy and performing the service , and Marta Grayson and her granddaughter will be singing .
Pastor Rayburn asked if either of us wanted to say something .
I declined , but didn’t know about you .
I wasn’t even sure then that you would be coming.” Jeanette gave her a sad look .
“I wouldn’t know what to say .
She had cut me out of her life , anyway , ” Gracie said , looking down into her coffee .
“She loved you , Gracie .
She was angry .
She ranted and raved for a couple of months , but after that , she seemed depressed .
I think she was really sorry about it all.” “Well , she could have called .
She could have told me if she was sorry , but she didn’t.” “She was so proud , Gracie .
You know that .
I think she thought that you would call.” “I thought about it a hundred times , Jeanette , but I always chickened out .
I just couldn’t handle the thought of being rejected again .
She was so hateful and mean that day .
It was like she hated me .
Why couldn’t she understand that I just wanted to live my own life ?
I wanted her to be part of it and be proud of me , ” Gracie said , feeling the tears coming back .
“Understanding was not one of Gram’s virtues , Gracie .
She wanted things her way .
She could be mean .
I never had the guts to stand up to her .
It was just easier to do what she wanted .
I kind of admired you for it .
Yeah , I was mad , but maybe I was mad more at myself for not being like you.” “Well , at least now we can be family again.” Gracie grabbed their cups and headed to the sink with them .
Then she remembered the lawyer’s letter .
She rinsed out the cups and turned to Jeanette .
“Gram’s lawyer sent me a letter , Jeanette .
I thought it was strange .
He wants to see me privately at his office on Wednesday .
Do you know what it’s about ? ” Jeanette looked up surprised .
“No , ” she said , “there will be a reading of the will Tuesday afternoon .
I have no idea why he would want to see you after that.” “Well , I guess I’ll have to wait to find out , ” Gracie said .
Chapter Three Sitting in the front row of the church , Gracie listened quietly as the minister named off the virtues of the deceased .
Apparently , he hadn’t known Lydia Lawson , Gracie thought to herself .
She had thought that she had gotten over her resentment , but seeing her grandmother lying motionless in her coffin brought all the hurt back full force .
She wanted to yell and scream at the corpse laying there or shake her back to life long enough to give Gracie the closure she deserved .
It was a ludicrous thought , anyway .
You see , Honey ? ” I nodded .
“Yeah ?
Then why not call me on calling you Honey ?
I 've done it since we sat down .
Why not start there ? ” “Well ...
I mean , you 're the boss , Jimmy.” “Which is why you start there .
I do n't allow anyone to talk anyway to anyone that does n't want that .
Let me explain that .
You got girls that work the streets .
You do n't see it so much here .
It 's a small city , but it happens .
I spent a few years on the streets in Rochester , bigger place , as a kid .
Happens all the time there.” He sipped at his drink .
I took a sip of my own drink and raised my brows at what he had said .
“Yeah ?
Do n't believe it ?
It 's true .
I fought my way up .
I have respect because I earned it.” He waved one hand .
“Do n't let me get off track.” He smiled and took another sip from his glass .
“So , I 've seen girls on the streets ... Whores ...
It is what it is .
Would you hear me say that to them ?
Maybe you would , maybe you would n't .
If a woman sees herself as a whore , if that 's all it is , what it is , then who am I to say different ?
Do you see ?
It 's a living , or it 's a life ...
There is a difference .
Now back to you .
You want to dance .
Some of these girls , ” he waved one meaty hand at the empty stage area , “work the other side .
Some of them do that for me , some do it on their own .
Some do n't , ” he sighed .
“Either way you would not see me treat them any other way than what they want to be treated .
I mean that .
If you believe you are a whore and that is what you see , then that is what you show the world , and that is how the world sees you ... treats you , ” he settled his eyes on me .
I nodded .
I did n't trust my voice .
I had been down this road on my own .
What did it say about me ?
That it only mattered that I made it ?
That money mattered more than anything else ?
Would I be swayed by the money ?
Was I even being honest with myself about my motivations ?
I really did n't know .
I knew what I told myself on a daily basis ... that I wanted to follow my Father into law enforcement , but was it whimsical like so many other things in my life that I never followed through on ?
“You are not just a dancer .
There is a part of you that is , a part of you that likes the way a man looks at you , likes the money .
But there is another part that is the private you , the real you .
You need to keep those distinctions.” He rubbed at his eyes , tossed off the rest of his drink and rose from the bar stool .
“Let me drop you home , Honey , ” he asked .
I stood , leaving my mostly full drink sitting on the bar top .
“I have my car , ” I told him .
“It 's late .
Creeps around maybe.” “Jimmy , every creep in my neighborhood knows I work here ... for you .
Guys stopped talking to me , let alone the creeps.” I laughed , but it was n't really all that funny .
It had scared me when I realized who Jimmy was , who Jimmy worked for .
In effect , who I worked for .
Another questionable thing ?
Probably .
Jimmy nodded .
“Smart creeps .
The southern Tier 's a big place .
Easy to lose yourself , with or without a little help.” He looked at his watch and then fixed his eyes on me once more .
“So you keep your perspective , set your limits , draw your lines , ” he spoke as he shrugged into his coat , retrieved his hat from the bar top and planted it on his head , “Do n't let nobody cross those lines .
You start next week , let 's say the eleventh ? ” I nodded .
“Take the balance of the time off .
By the time the eleventh comes around you should be ready for a whole new world .
A whole new life.” He stood looking down at me for a second .
“The big talk I guess .
For what it 's worth , I do n't say those things often , Honey.” I nodded .
“I believe that .
And , Jimmy ? ” He looked down at me .
He knew what was coming .
He expected it , and that was the only reason I was going to say it .
I knew better than to correct Jimmy V. There were a lot of woods up here .
They did go on forever and they probably did hold a lot of lost people .
I may be slow but I 'm far from stupid .
“Please do n't call me Honey , ” I told him .
He smiled .
“Do n't be so goddamn nice about it .
Do n't call me Honey , ” he rasped , a dangerous edge to his voice .
“Look 'em right in the eye .
Do n't call me Honey .
Put a little attitude in your look .
A little I can fuckin ' snap at any minute attitude .
Let me see that.” I Put my best street face on .
The one I had used growing up on the streets in Syracuse .
I knew that I can snap at any minute look .
I 'd used it many times .
“Do n't call me Honey , ” I told him in a voice that was not my own .
My street voice , “Just do n't do it.” “Goddamn right , Doll , ” Jimmy told me .
“Goddamn right .
Scared me a little there .
That 's that street wise part of you.” He took my head in both massive hands , bent and kissed the top of my head .
“I will see you on the eleventh , ” he told me .
I nodded .
I let the Doll remark go .
I followed Jimmy out the back door past Don who nodded at me and winked .
Don was an asshole .
Like acid had been injected inside it .
Carter fell to his knees , clutching at his throat .
His face was running like hot tallow dripping off his skull .
His hair slid off the back of his head .
Billy started screaming .
Backing up toward the lake .
Not taking the time to look behind him .
The girl was forgotten .
He tripped over a stump or some such thing and went down hard on his ass .
From around the corner of the downed tree he could see steam rising up and an awful acrid stench burned his nostrils .
It was also right then his hands touched water .
Amid the horrible gurgling sound from the other side of the tree , Billy wrenched his head around .
The lake had come alive .
There were what appeared to be floating heads dotting its surface and the water had pushed itself into thick fingers that had reached him while he wasn’t looking .
And he couldn’t pull his hands free .
It was like they were stuck in glue but infinitely worse .
Glue that burned .
He turned his face toward the sky and started screaming .
Was immediately jerked backward as the water pooled over his body , moving over him like oil .
And then he began to be dragged toward the lake , his shoes dragging ruts in the dirt .
In another few seconds he was gone completely and once again the lake was confined to the bank .
The floating heads dipped below the water line and the surface became glassy , still .
The abandoned Roadmaster was found several days later , but as to the three people who’d wandered into the trap of Leszno’s Acres , not a scrap of evidence was ever found .
Chapter 1 : History From the air , the area known colloquially as Leszno’s Acres appeared as a rough rectangle , its southern extremity pulled down slightly to follow the contour of Mill’s Stream .
Highway 27 , Old Perkins Way , bisected what had originally been almost a thousand acres of hardwood and swamp in its isolation , though everything on the east side of the highway had been sold in the late 1940s and for the most part remained untouched .
This stasis , however , was slowly changing as the influence of Macon’s Bluff , a city of almost 45,000 souls ten miles to the south , pushed outward .
Already land on the west of 27 , almost three hundred and fifty acres cut from the original one thousand , was being scraped clean to accommodate a hundred and fifty unit housing development due to open in the spring of 2014 .
Back on the eastern side of the highway , Leszno’s Acres tracked north to a long defunct spur of the Illinois Central Railway .
During the dawn of rail travel it had served the growing cities of Blackburn and Angle Sides for most of a generation , but a mysterious outbreak of smallpox in the early 1900s had decimated Blackburn and business between the two quickly perished .
The line limped along for another decade but eventually failed due to incompetent managers and the onset of trucking .
Gulliver’s Creek dipped away from the wide , muddy Turnley River near the dilapidated bridge the Illinois Central had left in the earth and ran a zig-zag southwest , transecting all that remained of the Acres to its farthest western boundary , the state line .
Here Neadles County and Pharsee Parish met in a delineated stalemate south and north , facing each other across a vast tract of pine forest , owned for the past hundred and thirty-three years by the PetaCollins Paper Mill , only recently declared insolvent .
Gulliver’s Creek joined Asdlundt Lake at the far southern extreme , yawning an oval five acres back into the forest .
The company had stocked the pond years back for employee picnics and other such forgotten get-togethers but a spate of unusually wet seasons had spilled the lake over its bank , stranding and killing most of the fish in spread out oxygen-starved shallow pockets and creating a vast bog that mudded and made untenable most of the southwest corner of Leszno’s Acres .
And there it was .
With boundaries thus defined , the encompassed seven hundred acres were nothing to shock the imagination ( as it would in the future ) or cause sustained pause .
Any magazine on farm and woodland would have contained its various elements , the cleared areas for grazing , the wooded for shade and protection , the ponds and creeks supplying water and irrigation .
But it was what had happened there over time that made all the difference , the creation of the thing that refused to lie quiet beneath the earth .
* One should remember history is not the sole provenance of man .
It lays a gossamer tissue of experience upon the land and bides in seeming disinterest .
And because land and time are not human constructs , they are not subject to our whims and petty laws .
Therefore patterns can be very subtle , if recognizable at all , and ripple through the ages like a goosefleshed skin across the land .
So it had been for the swath of land known currently as Leszno’s Acres .
So it has been for every other spot on , above , or under the earth for time out of mind .
But the land , like us , its human counterpart , slowly acquires personality and quirks , intent , and finally will .
Like the delineations of old scars on a fisherman’s hands or the thin burst veins in an alcoholic’s nose point to deeper , more savage , truths , so too does land acquire a history , a personality of its own .
So call it Leszno’s Acres now , but before it had known other more malicious titles : the Hill of Blood , the Flame Trap , Carter’s Demise , Malice Stop and on and on .
The land becomes a magnet for what it has known , and like a child at Christmas , it learns , it eventually burns , to acquire its wishes .
No matter how banal , how bizarre , how perverse .
It becomes both Lure and Lair .
Such was Leszno’s Acres .
* If one had the inclination to lie flat a transparency across a map of the area and mark with a red X all locations where animals and/or humans had happened upon misfortune of one sort or another , the area would appear to bleed .
There were , of course , the natural deaths : wild horses trapped in unexpected brush fires , deer broken legged in deadfalls , wooly pigs snorting out their pitiful rage as muckpits dragged them to their depths .
And then , the metaphysical ones : Indian tribes slowly , surely losing ground to defeat at the hands of the Wasicun , ritually disfiguring themselves amid other fruitless tortures in the vain attempt to placate and tame their stern and deadly gods .
Or finally , and perhaps the most stigmatizing , the purely mysterious : hunting parties gone missing , sometimes single men , but other times complete organized parties .
Leaving nothing to herald their passing except short passages in newspapers of the time , scattered bones in gullies and creek beds .
And always thereafter , the forgetfulness as people , the living , got on with their lives .
Leaving the dead to whatever spaces they would inhabit .
And so time went until , eventually , with European settlements and all the accoutrements of modern living creeping down from the northeast corner of the continent and up from the south , the area , which would one day become Leszno’s Acres , claimed the rather blasé nom de plume of haunted .
But the plague of misfortune continued .
* In 1848 , three boys excavating along the backbone of a gradual rise near Grimball Rock Quarry , just on the verge of the present southeastern border , were smothered to death when the roof of their primitive tunnel let go .
When discovered two days later ( they had , of course , not mentioned to their parents their whereabouts nor their endeavors ) , a pair of hands and a pair of boots stuck out amid the rubble of the entrance .
One going in , the other out , like adjacent currents in a vast ocean , two short lives caught in the process of entering and leaving .
Then fourteen years later , 1862 , a minister’s daughter suddenly missing from her bed , found miles away and days later , close within the dim rectangle , tied with rusty wire to a willow tree , her poor young body nude and ravaged from time , the wire , and depravity .
For the crime a drifter took the fall , some toothless vagrant tossed out of his own home years before in the deathgrip of alcoholism , blasted out of his mind and completely clueless when the vigilantes rousted him from sleep near Gulliver’s Creek .
To be hung by the neck from a nearby oak , vehemently proclaiming his innocence until his ability to continue was…shall we say , choked off .
The area drew victims like a spider web draws flies .
* The new century offered little respite .
On January 1 , 1901 , a dog-handler in search of his prize Catahoola bitch broke through a magnolia copse and into the light of what was known for the next thirty years as the Hill of Blood .
After retching up his breakfast and arming himself with a stout red oak branch , he managed to stumble to the summit of the small rise .
Around him , scattered in haphazard piles and even a few to their own spaces , lay the remains of what was eventually identified as thirty-seven bodies .
Men , women , and children .
And the other thirty-three ?
A mystery , thirty-three dead ends .
For those not too far gone in decomposition , photos went out in the paper , black and white grainy shots to be sure , but photos nonetheless .
The others were buried at parish expense , immediately , some said to make the nightmare end .
That grisly circus of lost bodies .
And of the photographed few ?
Not one word , not one single inquiry from the entire limit of the newspaper’s influence .
Some fearful townsfolk hinted the dead were the derelicts of Heaven , others the rejects of Hell .
And there it stayed .
* On May 22 , 1929 , according to the microfiche remnants from the old Angler’s Gazette , a man named Antonio Grasse , a recent Italian immigrant , was found dead in the woods near Asdlundt Lake .
His fishing pole was found nearby , owing to the interest by the gazette , but not to the follow up stories that would continue by print and mouth for the next quarter century .
The gazette laid it out in simple terms , bereft of histrionics .
Grasse had spoke of fishing one afternoon , obviously had held true to his word , and even though the area in which he’d been found was far from the typical haunt of such types ( angler’s are known for their quirks ) , no eyebrow was lifted to this irregularity .
Initially .
The odd thing , and here the paper only suggested , was how he was found : hooked by the pantsleg to the third strand of barbwire in the PetaCollins fence line , head down , his face resting in six inches of foul lake-runoff from the previous summer’s flood .
Not a mark on his body , not even cuts from the barbwire , and yet his lungs full of the swampy water .
Drowned somehow , hanging upside down from a barbwire fence .
A damn sight strange indeed , but that’s where the Angler’s Gazette left it .
By the time of the first sighting the periodical had gone the way of the dinosaurs .
And for some that brought back the memory of Grasse .
Over the course of the next fifteen years his ghost was spotted numerous times near the area , shadowing hunters and fisherman , occasionally getting close enough to become an actual menace according to those few who claimed these encounters .
And then , very slowly , as the area became more notorious , the apparition slipped from the public conscience completely , or as completely as ghosts ever do .
* The 1940s passed with little more of substance to add to the public record .
People , however , continued to talk .
Hunting dogs , it was said , had difficulty following trails within Leszno’s Acres , and even if not , game taken was often deformed and distasteful .
Sighing , the imp sped off after the hellhound , hoping to catch him before any innocents came to harm .
* The sun continued to rise , painting the sky with blushes of pink and gold .
Unhindered by terrain , the Shade quickly made its way across the small wooded park .
A bright flair of colors appeared though the trees , drawing the Shade onward .
A lone female ran along a dirt trail , oblivious to the incorporeal Shade .
Anticipation ran through the Shade as it moved to intercept the running woman .
Matching her pace , the Shade imposed its essence upon the unsuspecting woman .
The woman stumbled to a halt , leaning on a tree for support .
The Shade exulted in the feel of the rough bark beneath its stolen hands , the feel of the caressing breeze , the aroma of flowering plants , and most of all , the thudding of a beating heart .
The Shade’s pleasure at its new surroundings was short-lived however , as Cerberus appeared on the trail .
A menacing growl rumbled in the hellhound’s throat .
Slowly Cerberus stalked in , sensing the Shade within the mortal shell .
The hellhound cared little for the mortal ; Cerberus would allow no one to stop the retrieval of the Shade .
Deil came upon Cerberus as the hellhound accosted the mortal woman .
Altering his eyesight , the imp witnessed the missing Shade attempting to force out the host’s true essence .
Deil knew that once removed , the true self would appear as a runaway Shade to the hellhound .
Before Cerberus could attack the innocent mortal , Deil swept in and slapped the Hell-Writ against the host body .
Ebony flames ensnared the woman , sending the fugitive Shaded shrieking to the Underworld .
As the ethereal flames subsided , the woman fell unconscious to the earth , virtually unscathed .
Cerberus leaped upon the imp , dragging Deil to the ground , happy to see his retainer .
After several swipes of his tongues , Cerberus sat back and allowed the imp to rise .
Wiping the drool from his face , Deil leaped up and grasped the hellhound’s collar .
Relief in his voice , Deil remarked , “Let’s go home.” * With Cerberus back at his post , Deil made his way to the great hall .
Small even by imp standards , Deil felt even less significant , standing before the colossal throne , wondering if his bones would join those of the eon’s dead creatures that made up the Eternal Seat .
Hades sat staring at his servant .
After several moments of tense silence he spoke .
“It seems you have been successful.” Deil felt somewhat relieved .
Hades continued , “However , it also appears that additional Shades have escaped.” Deil swallowed hard , wondering if the Tartarus pits would be so bad .
# # # Cinderella : The Untold Story Staring at the cold , ash-filled hearth , Ella could not suppress a sigh .
Dustpan and brush in hand , she knelt , carefully adjusting her tattered , soot-stained dress in a somewhat futile attempt to keep the garment from acquiring further grime .
Sweeping up a portion of the ashes , Ella dumped the contents into an ash bucket , causing a thin plume of soot to rise and settle on her dress , further obscuring the faded blue color .
Ignoring the additional stains , Ella continued to sweep up the ashes .
Her attention on the task at hand , she did not hear someone enter the room .
`` Ella ! ''
Startled , Ella missed the bucket , spreading ashes across the floor .
Before she could stop herself , another sigh escaped her lips .
Cringing , Ella braced for the venomous spew that was sure to come .
`` You incompetent child ! ''
I shall be twenty-one in two days time and yet she insists on calling me child Ella thought , but knew better than to give voice to the notion .
`` You know full well that Talbot pays good money for the ashes that you are being so careless about . ''
Ella knew Talbot the Ink maker paid well for the ashes , just as she knew that she would never see a farthing of it .
Another thought Ella would not say aloud .
Instead , she replied , `` Yes mother . ''
Her face contorting , the woman screamed , `` Stepmother !
Stepmother !
How many times must I remind you , you ignorant whelp ? ''
Ella 's stepmother raised a hand as if to strike her , but with a great deal of effort retrained herself .
Women of class and good breeding never resorted to violence her stepmother had once scolded an eleven year old Ella , after she accidentally knocked over her sister ( stepsister she silently reminded herself ) while playing .
As if women of class and good breeding would allow their home to become run-down , selling off the family 's possessions to purchase extravagant gowns , Ella had wanted to reply , yet had remained silent .
Patting her rust-colored hair , that she kept in a severe bun in order to hide the gray , Ella 's stepmother drew in a deep calming breath .
`` As if I could ever give birth to such an ugly child . ''
Stung , Ella lowered her head ; raven-dark curls spilling forward , tears welling up in her soft blue eyes .
Her rosebud lips quivered slightly as she attempted to stem the flow of tears .
Unable to prevent it , drops began to fall , leaving tracks through the soot on her alabaster skin .
`` Oh , stop that sniveling and finish cleaning the hearth , '' the stepmother said .
Composing herself , Ella replied , `` Yes , stepmother . ''
`` See child , you can learn . ''
Ella seethed inwardly at the child reference but as usual kept silent .
As she resumed her task , with her stepmother droning on about the laziness of some people , Ella had a visual of a blazing hearth and her stepmother stumbling into said fireplace .
A smile crept onto her face briefly , until Ella 's overly guilty conscious wiped the smile away .
Sighing to herself , Ella continued to sweep up the ashes , dumping them in the bucket and coughing as the plumes of soot settled over her .
Wisps of smoke curled unnoticed in the fireplace , rising listlessly up the chimney .
The door to the cottage slammed open , causing Ella to miss the bucket once again .
Thankfully , her stepmother had been too engrossed with her reflection in the only mirror in the house to notice the additional mishap .
Looking over her shoulder , Ella groaned at the sight of her two stepsisters waltzing into the cottage , wearing the gaudiest gowns she had ever seen .
Ella could not help but gawk at her stepsisters .
Gangly Claudette dressed in yellow and green , giving her the appearance of a giant ear of corn .
Corpulent Margaret draped in layers of bright orange lending to the look of an oversized pumpkin .
Both dresses had enough extra lace and ruffles to make a dozen outfits for Ella , who admittedly could use a new dress , not that she would be caught dead wearing such obnoxious clothing .
Ella never understood her family 's obsession with pretending to be well off .
Tearing her gaze away from the mirror , the stepmother said , `` Ah , my darling daughters .
Do n't you look marvelous ?
Wouldn’t you agree Ella ? ''
`` I think marvelous does not begin to cover it stepmother , '' Ella replied , while thinking , ridiculous is more like it .
Eyeing Ella , almost as if reading her stepdaughter 's mind , the stepmother said , `` I do believe you are correct . ''
`` Thank you mother , '' the daughters replied .
Turning to Ella , Claudette asked , `` Have you ever seen such gowns ?
The dressmaker assured us that she will never make dresses such as these again . ''
`` Not even for the Queen herself , '' Margaret added .
`` Not if she wants to stay in business and out of the dungeon , '' Ella muttered .
Tuning out the inane chatter between her stepmother and stepsisters , Ella returned to her chore , wishing she had the nerve to voice her innermost thoughts or at the very least stand up for herself .
Daydreaming as she went about her sweeping , Ella scarcely heard the knock on the cottage door .
Turning , she saw a royal messenger bowing to her stepmother .
`` Good Morrow madam .
I am charged by royal decree to search the kingdom and invite all ladies of marrying age , to attend a ball for his Royal Highness Prince Duncan , at which time his royal highness the prince will select one woman to be his betrothed . ''
Claudette and Margaret squealed in delight , while their mother clasped a hand to her expansive bosom , praising the royal family .
Meanwhile , Ella could only shake her head at the notion of grown women willing to display themselves like some prize-winning ewe at market .
The messenger asked , `` May I inform the royal family that you and your three daughters will be in attendance ? ''
`` Three ? ''
the stepmother asked .
As one Claudette , Margaret , and the stepmother turned to regard Ella .
All eyes upon her , Ella felt the flush rise up her neck , turning her alabaster skin a warm pink .
Standing , Ella became self-conscious of her appearance , adding to her already tremendous embarrassment .
Hiding her soot-stained hands behind her back , Ella bowed her head , willing the flush to dissipate .
The wisps of smoke in the hearth grew thicker , while an ember flickered anew .
`` Can you imagine , Ella in a ball gown ? ''
Claudette asked .
`` Can you imagine , Ella dancing with the prince ? ''
Margaret returned .
The sisters laughed uproariously .
Their grey , wrinkled skin was soon the color of fresh blood as they ripped at the new corpse .
She saw the zombies greedily tearing at the body until they earned a sizeable chunk or limb , whereupon they would rush away to gnaw at the morsel .
Other zombies would try to steal the food away , and then the creatures would fight over it , driven mad by the taste .
A zombie stumbled up onto the mound of oiled branches , slipping and falling before getting back up to investigate Rayna .
The living corpse was freshly dead , unlike the wrinkled , grey faces of many others .
She looked familiar to Rayna , although the pale of death had stolen her features .
The woman’s eyes had been blue , although they were now mostly grey , with streaks of bloodshot veins .
Her blonde hair was matted with blood , and there was a gash on her cheek that revealed molars beneath .
Rayna braced herself , ready for the zombie to tear into her , but the woman merely sniffed , and then turned her attention elsewhere .
The dead had no interest in the half-dead , and this zombie moved on in search of another meal .
The wooden sword in her gut was slowly bleeding her , and she looked forward to the release of death .
She wondered if she would turn into one of the flesh-eating monsters after she passed , and with that thought she closed her eyes .
Rayna gasped and opened her eyes as the sword was pulled from her belly .
The pain was intense and she felt her guts spilling from the gap the weapon left behind .
She opened her eyes , but the world had lost its color .
The Scholar stood before her , his left hand coursing through her matted hair , whispering through his mask , “Wake up , Rayna .
You’re not dead yet.” He spoke through a mask made of leather , buttons keeping the straps in place .
There was a wide , round canister over his mouth , and his dark eyes peered through goggles at her .
She finally recognized him .
This was her lover ; the man who’d promised she could lead a good life as a half-dead , but had then revealed her affliction to a crowd .
Rayna tried to speak , but only a weak groan came forth .
Behind The Scholar there were men and women dragging bodies out and lining them up in a row .
She saw children as well , dutifully helping line up the dead for reasons Rayna couldn’t fathom .
“I’m afraid I can’t take you with me to the plains , ” said The Scholar as he placed his hands on either cheek , as if about to kiss her if not for his mask .
“But you can still fight for me here.” He moved his hands down over her throat and began to squeeze .
He was choking her , and she stared into the suggestion of dark eyes behind the glass orbs of his mask .
Rayna awoke starving , although it was an unfamiliar hunger .
She struggled to break free of her bindings , and then felt someone else’s hands on hers .
She twisted to look behind her , and could see that there was another man , dressed similarly to The Scholar , ready to cut the cords that kept Rayna tied to the pole .
She leaned forward and moaned , then snapped her teeth at The Scholar .
He wasn’t afraid , and she sniffed at him .
Her hunger subsided .
She knew his flesh wouldn’t sate her .
The Scholar took out a blade and said , “One quick bit of business.” He used one hand to force Rayna’s head up and then cut into her neck .
She squirmed , but was still bound too tightly to fight back .
She felt The Scholar’s fingers sliding into the cavity he’d cut in her , and then her tongue slipped down into her throat .
He pulled it through the wound and then cut it off , throwing it off to the oiled branches below .
She felt him reach inside of her throat again , and he pinched at some other bit of flesh that he tore out and threw away .
“That should do it , ” he said as he stepped down from the pyre .
Rayna tried to growl , but her voice was lost .
Only a wet gasp came from the wound in her throat as she gnashed her teeth and tried to scream .
The Scholar knelt and cleaned his blade on the tunic of a dead man .
“Go ahead and cut her free , ” said The Scholar , and his man obeyed .
Rayna’s hands were free , and she looked down at the wounds on her wrists that the twine had carved .
Next , The Scholar’s man cut the bindings from her ankles and she was free to step away from the pyre .
She fell forward , collapsing onto the branches and sliding down to the earth below , free at last .
The Scholar helped her up , and she looked out at the other zombies that now populated the square , each of them happily feasting upon their victims .
She lusted for the flesh , desiring nothing more than to taste the fresh blood and tear at the meat .
“Go , eat , ” said The Scholar .
Rayna ran to the nearest heap of flesh , eager to bite into the body before it got cold .
Chapter One Adelaide Kessel was the matriarch of one of the wealthiest families in the kingdom of Golden Rock , and as such she wasn’t used to being detained when traveling through the city .
She was riding in one of her more modest carriages , white lacquered and with red cushion seats within .
The compartment afforded little privacy , though it was covered to prevent weather from affecting the riders , with the exception of the driver who was perched upon his seat up front , guiding the steeds .
This carriage was meant for short trips to the market , and allowed the populace to see the aristocrat in her finery .
It was always good etiquette to commiserate with the commoners , and she enjoyed these sojourns away from her mansion near Golden Rock castle .
Today had proceeded as expected , with a simple shopping trip down to the farmer’s market on the River Wisp , where she’d purchased a few eggplants , cabbage , and string beans to bring back to her chef .
Adelaide wasn’t running errands for her servant .
She enjoyed selecting the fruits and vegetables that looked appetizing to her , which she would then bring back to Claude and instruct him to use them in the meal he was preparing for the evening .
She would be hosting two other aristocrat matriarchs this evening , and needed to make a good impression .
Informing them that she’d personally picked out the produce for the evening was always a good way of letting them know she was still up and active , even at her age .
“What could be taking so long ? ” asked Adelaide as she leaned her head out of the windowless door beside her .
They were in the fields of corn that lined the eastern wall of Golden Rock , and they had to make it all the way across to the other side of the city to get home .
“Peter , ” she called out to her driver .
“What are we waiting for ? ” “The guards , ma’am , ” said Peter .
He was old but loyal , and had been driving Adelaide for years now .
He wore black slacks and a suit coat even on the hottest days because he understood the importance of appearances , and Adelaide appreciated him for that .
“Have they said why ? ” She was sitting with her back to the front of the carriage , and craned her neck as she tried to gaze out ahead .
There were men hired to protect Adelaide , named by their profession as Swords , and they were riding on horseback ahead and behind the carriage .
Only one Sword remained in the rear , while the rest were all focused on something ahead .
Two of the men had even dismounted , which made Adelaide worry that they would be here for longer than she wanted .
“Is it another beggar ? ” she asked and dug into her purse to retrieve a pouch that jangled as she lifted it .
“Throw some pel at him and be done with it.” She opened the pouch and was about to remove some of the short , thin rods of gold when she heard something crunch in the field of corn beside her .
She paused and glanced out at the tall , green crops .
“Peter , did you hear something out there ? ” She pointed out at the field , and tried to peer between the short spaces between the stalks .
“Peter ?
Peter , are you listening to me ? ” She leaned out of the carriage again and saw that her driver’s arm was laying limply at his side .
The steed’s reins were slack , loping deep enough to touch the ground .
“Peter ? ” she asked again , this time fretful .
“Peter’s dead , ” said a stranger’s voice from the other side of the carriage .
Adelaide yelped and spun in her seat to face the man .
He was a brutish looking thug , with a square jaw and a scar that traced a line from beside his nose , over his mouth , and down to his chin .
His nose was wide and flat , with a ridge that bowed out and went up to his equally pronounced brow .
He was smiling , but it was impossible for him not to look menacing as he stared with icy blue eyes at the aristocrat .
Adelaide placed her hand over her breast , crumpling the lace and jangling the silver chain that held her emerald pendant .
“Brigand , ” she said the word like a curse and then reached for her purse and tucked it to her belly .
“Help , Swords ! ” “No one to help you now , you ratty old tart.” The man opened the door of the carriage , and Adelaide reached for the handle of the opposite side to escape .
She got the door open , but her elaborate gown was too difficult to manage as she tried to get out .
The attacker was inside the carriage holding her down before she could do anything .
She fought back , but he quickly subdued her .
His girth pressed down on her fragile , old body , crushing her against the red cushion and causing her to cry out in pain .
The sound of swords clashing came from outside , but it was over by the time Adelaide surrendered .
These brigands had been lying in wait in the field , and surprised Adelaide Kessel’s Swords , slaying them before most of them even had a chance to dismount .
She knew there would be other travelers coming along this road , and hoped that they would save her from whatever fate this devil had in mind .
His arm was at her throat , pressing her against the back of the carriage as he held her waist with his other hand .
The man’s thumb was digging into her , and he grinned as he kept her seated .
“Do you know who I am ? ” she asked when he eased up the pressure on her throat .
“Of course I do , ” said the brigand .
“That’s why I’m here , Lady Kessel.” “If you’re after pel , you can have it .
But you’ll have Swords hunting you down for years for this if you hurt me.” “I’m not interested in your money.” “Then what are you doing this for ? ” “I want information.” He released her waist and reached to his side where he produced a wicked looking knife , short and thin , with either side sharpened .
“And you’re going to give it to me.” “What sort of information ? ” “About a girl your family hid from us .
What you doing watching me ... ( pant ) .
Who the hell do you think you are ... ( gasp ) ... laughing at me and running off like that '' , gasped Ned .
`` Well what do you expect you nutter ( sniff ) .
Charging and hollowing like some escaped lunatic ( sniff sniff ) .
What the hell do you expect me to do , stand still and ( sniff ) let you beat me up just cause I laughed at you '' .
The voice was high pitched , fast and frightened .
In places it shook as though the individual that delivered it was about to burst into tears , but most noticeable to Ned was that the voice was female .
`` I 'm sorry ... err pet , I didn’t mean to frighten ya like .
Ar thought you was some nutcase yourself .
Up to no good .
A mugger or some’it like . ''
`` Do I look like a bleeding nutter . ''
`` No of cause not '' , said Ned , who in truth had no idea whether the lass did or didn’t .
`` Anyway '' , said Ned `` what the hell were you doing hiding in the bushes like that ?
I mean what 's a guy to think ! ''
`` I heard you coming down the road '' , the voice said , replacing the fear that had earlier tinged it with a sharp angry vibe .
It continued , saying : `` How should I know who you are ?
You might be a rapist or a bleeding nutcase yourself ! ''
`` Listen , I 'm sorry .
Let me help you up” and reaching out his hand he pulled the girl to her feet .
`` Erm , you err , you must be going to Tremwell as well then , eh .
Let me accompany you back pet , I promise I 'm no nutcase , or out else of the sort . ''
`` No no .
Thanks all the same '' , she replied `` but I 'm quite all right . ''
`` Ah howay man , I 'm a lot less bother than ya think , and besides on a cold dark night like this I need a big strong lass like you to protect little-ol me '' .
The girl gave a small sigh , then said : `` I really do n't know , I err , I like walking alone and ... '' '' Well it 's up to you but you do n't no what your missing '' , said Ned in a light hearted jolly voice .
`` Ya may not have noticed pet but A’ve add one or two bevies tonight and I 'm as happy as Larry .
And in the mood I 'm in at the moment I could cheer up the miserablest scoundrel ever to walk the planet . ''
Ned then spread his legs wider apart and placed both hands on his hips , striking his best superhero pose , then saying in his best heroic voice : `` When Ned Fragillpot 's about , he can cheer up any man , any woman or ... or ... .or any trout '' .
The girl burst out laughing and Ned was pleased that his merry little ditty had struck a chord .
`` Ned Fragillpot '' , laughed the girl .
`` What kind of a names Ned Fragillpot '' .
Ned was a bit miffed .
`` It 's a perfectly good name I’ll have you know '' .
The girl stopped laughing when she detected from Ned 's voice that she 'd hurt his feelings .
Unfortunately Ned then came out with `` What 's wrong with being called Ned fucking Fragillpot anyway '' , and the girl burst out into an uncontrollable fit of hysterics .
... ... ... ... ... Ned chatted constantly as the two travelled down the road together .
It was good to have someone to talk too after being alone on the road for well over an hour .
And what a someone .
The girl had turned out to be very pretty indeed , with bleached blond hair and a curvy slim figure , dressed in a tight pink party dress , black knee length P.V.C boots and a bright yellow feather boa which was sexily draped around her neck and shoulders .
She also carried a small silver handbag , which to Ned might as well have been invisible with such other delights on offer .
And O.K , maybe she wore a little too much make-up for Ned 's liking , and just maybe her short blond hair was in a style that had become defunct and dead along with the dinosaurs ( or at least since a certain T.Rex had got it on and banged his gong at the music scene ) , but all the same ... .PWOOOOAAAARRRR !
The girl ( who Ned now knew to be called Trudy ) remained fairly tight lipped and seemed happy to let Ned make the conversation .
As Ned rambled on about his work and how he 'd wished he 'd never seen or heard of the job at the local supermarket .
And how dull stacking shelves was , she began to regret accepting his offer to walk back with him .
Amazingly though , this was not because of Ned 's remarkable ability , capable of boring the pants off any poor soul who’d have a heart to listen to his whinges and whines , but because every time she looked down at the ground she was reminded about herself and feared that at any moment she 'd be found out .
But after Ned had made her laugh so , the loneliness she’d thought to have grown accustomed to had hit so very very hard , and it had been such a long time since she 'd laughed so uncontrollably .
As he seemed to be a pleasant , warm hearted and harmless sort of guy , she 'd agreed to his offer and the decision she 'd made to remain forever hidden had changed in those few brief and fickle moments .
At least one good thing was clearly obvious about the young lad , he seemed quite pissed ( slurring the odd word as he 's conversation took a more interesting path in complementing her on her marvellous appearance and looks ) and interested only in looking at her breasts .
... ... ... ... ...
The two had walked nearly half a mile and Ned was pleased that the girl’s nervousness had gone and she once more laughed as he cracked the odd joke or listened intently to his rantings about the night out with his best friend Rich and why he was in the situation he now found himself .
She was also beginning to relax more , giving him one or two brief little snippets about herself .
These mainly involved things like how she loved buying clothes and perfumes , and hated dieting and lettuce .
Boring stuff to Ned , who found himself nodding his head in agreement to her , even though ( say for example ) the conversation about “how BIG cotton pants were a lot more comfortable and warmer to wear than G-strings” was completely over his head .
There was something clearly odd about the girl that Ned couldn’t ( at least for the moment ) place , but there was something .
Something in her appearance , though not in her dress sense .
The girl had explained this to him being because of a fancy dress party she 'd attended with her college buddies , but still something nagged at the back of his head .
... ... ... ... ...
There was less than two miles to go as the two walked hand in hand together looking either into each others eyes or up towards the starry nights sky ( when not obscured passing under a yellow street light ) .
Plus it was now Ned who was the quieter of the pair , as with each passing stride Trudy had become much more chirpy , talking fast and feverishly , seeming to relish the chance of conversation .
She expressed a sharp intellect and knowledge as she talked of her love for the old black and white films and the great actors and actresses that had helped turn them into the original classic 's of today .
How her great love for poetry had turned her into something of a book-worm in her childhood days , and how her mother and father had fretted when they’d discovered love poems in her closet , and had mistakenly thought them to be erotic letters sent by boyfriends besotted with their daughter .
Ned had pushed her to quote him one of her poems , but she was far to embarrassed , instead opting to quote her favourite poem `` IF '' which to Ned ( who having become a bit what annoyed with not being able to get a word in edge-ways ) was spoilt by the last two lines .
`` Listen all I 'm saying is that Kipling got it wrong '' .
`` How can you say such a thing ?
The poem that 's considered by many to be the greatest ever written was in some way flawed .
I mean that is what you’re suggesting right '' .
`` Yep '' She smiled and shook her head in disbelief .
`` So come on then Einstein , what was wrong then with the last two lines '' .
`` Well '' , said Ned trying to remain calm , while simultaneously thinking furiously , not wanting to look like some fool that would soon be regretting his own arrogance .
`` I reckon right .
That erm ... .yeah that 's it .
I , reckon that if Kipling had instead finished his poem with the lines ... '' If you can portray the feeling of an idea you have to a sober man , no matter how shit that idea might be .
Then , and only then mind you , will you be a man ma son '' .
Trudy didn’t try to hide her annoyance , but after seeing the cheeky smile spread across Ned 's face she decided against arguing too much , instead satisfying herself in saying : `` It didn’t rhyme '' .
Ned who was actually quite pleased with what he 'd come up with retorted : `` Well what do ya expect , if I had time I 'd have made it rhyme .
But not even my genius works at such a fast level '' .
This last piece of arrogance was too much for Trudy , who moments before would have forgotten the whole thing , snapped : `` Why you ignorant piece of shit .
You lousy tosspot .
How can you say such fucking , fuckin ... '' Ned had burst into laughter after hearing Trudy lose her rag and swear properly for the first time since he 'd met her .
She , on realising this to some extent , also began to giggle at how mad she 'd become over such a silly little thing and soon found she could not contain herself as the two burst out into uncontrollable laughter .
As they continued their hysterics , neither noticed as a small set of lights behind them begin to grow in size .
The laughing suddenly stopped and her eyes widened in terror as the headlights began to pass them by .
Ned , who was not bothered by the car , continued laughing but soon stopped as he felt the girls long nails dig into his hand ( causing an unpleasant , though harmless pain ) and gave out a loud `` YOWWWWWWW '' .
He looked up from his hand with a grimace on his face to find that the girl no longer looked at him but at the road in front of him .
Terror was still on her face and Ned followed her eyes to were she looked .
Something was not right with what he looked at , but whether or not this was because at that point in time he simply did not grasp the strange thing in front of him or was because his mind had decided for the moment to hide the terror of what he 'd seen from him , he did not know .
As the car drove by and out of sight , Trudy gulped and looked at Ned .
He seemed a little puzzled , but ( at least ) none the wiser .
She gave a sigh then said : `` You O.K Ned '' .
`` Yeah ... ” ( pause ) .
`` Yeah sure '' , he said as the puzzlement evaporated from his face .
`` I 'm O.K , BUT I ca n't say the same thing for my hand though '' .
`` Oh ... Sorry about that .
Guess I was just a bit caught up in the moment and got a bit of a shock when I saw the light of ... I , I mean , when I heard the car '' , she said stiffly .
Ned could tell from her voice that there was something more to it , but decided on pressing further , grabbing the girl by the hand and saying , `` Come on then , a warm coffee awaits '' .
... ... ... ... ...
The words love , works and mysterious ways are commonly put together to form one sentence that will be written again and again throughout history .
Not by me however .
Donald brought the slice of pork loin over to his plate .
The pork had a sweeter smell than the beef .
He smelled a hint of a caramel glaze , or was that molasses ?
The charred edges had a sting to them , reminiscent of the tickling from the oak charcoal grill’s flame .
Donald returned to the tenderloin .
Within seconds , that slice was descending his esophagus .
He began on the flank .
This cut was less tender than the tenderloin and filet , but far tastier .
Soaking in fat , bathed in salt and juices , the butter , herbs , and garlic basted flank challenged his pallet with a dazzling array of flavors .
He brought slice after slice into his mouth , relishing the magnifying pain of his working jaw .
His stomach cramped , and disappointment cloaked his joy .
He checked his card to ensure it was flipped to the “No Thanks ! ” side , but discovered it wasn’t .
He could have sworn he flipped it over .
He flipped it and returned to the last cut on his plate , the pork .
As he began , stomach aching , he heard metal jangling—the unmistakable sound of an approaching server .
The jangling stopped at his table .
“This is ridiculous , ” Donald said as the server placed the hunk of bacon wrapped mignon filets down on his table .
“Can’t you see my card ? ” “That’s why I’m over here , ” the server said .
“Your card is not on the correct side if you don’t want more meat.” The server slid a bacon wrapped mignon onto Donald’s plate and left .
Donald looked at the food in front of him .
The slice of pork and now the bacon wrapped mignon glared at him , angry .
“You better not be wasting food , ” the cuts seemed to yell .
They grew mouths .
How could he eat something with mouths attached ?
He returned to the pork .
His stomach tapped out , but there was no backup .
Donald cut , stabbed , lifted , and forced slice after heavy slice into his Dr.y mouth .
He chugged some water , allowing over-pour to Dr.ip from his lips onto his shirt .
His mouth hung slightly ajar , too tired to close fully .
The pork smelled heavy , and tasted sticky .
The texture was reminiscent of a dog’s tongue .
Jingling .
Footsteps .
And then , “Rib eye ? ” “No.” Donald shook his head in disbelief .
“No , this can’t be happening.” The server began cutting into the beef .
“Tongs , ” he commanded reproachfully .
Tears welled in Donald’s eyes .
“Please.” “Tongs , ” the server repeated , his tone Dr.ipping with disdain .
Donald lifted the tongs as his stomach throbbed .
He grabbed the slice of rib eye and placed it onto his stuffed , bloody plate .
The cut collapsed onto the bacon wrapped mignon with a blubbery slap .
It shivered like gelatin , and blood seeped from its pores like sweat on a baby forgotten in a sweltering car .
The pork was a panting dog’s tongue moments before puking .
Donald cut another slice of meat , and as he cut his knife scraped across the glass plate , screeching a hole in his head .
His stomach begged for mercy .
He impaled the slice and held it to his lips .
The stench caused his nose hairs to shrivel and retreat towards his eyes .
“Beef ribs ? ” No .
No no no .
He looked over at his card , and it read innocently , “More Please ! ” “You’re lying ! ” Donald screeched at the card .
“I flipped you !
I flipped you over ! ” He glanced up .
The restaurant had gone silent .
The woman in the pearl gown stared daggers at Donald , who cringed in his chair .
“Beef ribs ? ” the server asked again .
“Do I have a choice ? ” Donald asked .
The server laughed .
“Beef ribs are my favorite too .
I never have a choice ! ” He cut an extra large slice and slid it onto the stuffed plate .
Donald stared at the flesh and wanted to cry .
He looked at his card and carefully flipped it over .
Yet it still read “More Please ! ” He flipped it again .
But again , “More Please ! ” He flipped it again .
And again .
And again .
But no matter what , “More Please ! ” still blazed innocently on the card .
“Server , ” he cried out .
“Server ! ” A black-haired waitress approached .
“More water , sir ? ” “Well , yes—but also , my card is double sided !
It only says , ‘More Please’.” He handed her the card .
She rotated it in her hand .
She stared at it for a moment , grinned , and handed it back to him .
“Sir , make sure you flip it just once.” She showed him the card , which clearly read “No Thanks.” He couldn’t understand .
She handed it back to him , ignoring his disbelief .
He placed the side she’d shown him on the table and returned to the pile of meat on his plate .
By this time , the meat had grown cold .
The stench was raw and acidic , as if the meat had been regurgitated by an opossum for its young .
The food in his overstuffed stomach stabbed his other organs , clawing to escape .
He rubbed his gut—the food baby inside was well into its third trimester .
He cut a slice of bacon wrapped mignon .
The weight of it on his fork strained his wrist .
The cut was red square-shaped gummy candy , stale and dirty .
It looked like it would squeak when he chewed it .
The woman in the pearl gown walked by , having finished her meal , but before she exited she stopped at Donald’s table .
She stared at him , her nose crumpled and her brow furrowed , his pathetic smell evidently disgusting her .
“Are you going to waste all of that ? ” she asked , spitting out each word like a llama .
“N-no , ” Donald replied .
His stomach began to rip , and fleshy fibers clung together in a desperate attempt to resist the onslaught of pressure .
She stared at him a moment longer , her face scrunched like an angry bulldog .
“You disgust me , ” she spat .
“Flip over your card , you wasteful slime.” He looked down at his card .
It shouted boastfully , “More Please ! ” “Why is this happening ? ” he cried .
He lifted the card and attempted to rip it in half , straining , veins Dr.awn and pulsing on his red scalp and bursting behind his eyes .
But it wouldn’t rip .
He just wanted to finish , so he could go home and sleep this nightmare off .
He Dr.opped the card and lifted the entire chunk of beef wrapped mignon with his fork .
He placed the whole rotten thing in his mouth .
His body attempted puking to expel it , but he fought the urge .
The beef , however , blended with the hints of regurgitated stomach acid , somehow improving its sweaty taste .
He swallowed , and his stomach screeched like a rat in the talons of a hawk .
He picked Beauty up off her perch .
He moved to the swing doors , opened them wide , and then spoke into Beauty’s ear .
“We want quails .
Okay ? ” Fritz said , holding up two fingers .
“Quails .
Two .
Got that ? ” Beauty nodded with vigour .
“Good girl.” Fritz extended his arm and Beauty took flight into the driving rain .
“Maybe you should train Beauty to obey Ernest too , ” Liz said .
“In case you’re busy elsewhere and we need a fowl.” Fritz shrugged .
“I tried , ” he said , “but she’ll only obey me .
What can I say ?
I must be more popular with the chicks.” Liz rolled her eyes .
“Fritz , ” he said , “will you go over to Robin’s Nest and keep an eye on Jack for me , please ? ” “Can’t Ernest do it ? ” Fritz said .
Ernest had his nose buried in a book , an intense look of concentration on his face .
He was slighter than his older brother , with narrow shoulders .
The lenses of his glasses made his eyes look tiny .
Liz clicked her fingers around Ernest’s ears .
He didn’t respond .
“No , ” Liz said .
“Ernest can’t do it.” “Do you want me to take Francis ? ” Fritz said , gesturing to the eight year-old now building a house of cards and peering at them with curiosity .
“No , ” Liz said .
“He’s all right where he is .
Take Ernest with you though , if you can peel him away from his book.” Fritz slipped on a bright yellow raincoat , careful with the hood over his hair .
“You just have to know how to get his attention , ” he said .
He sidled up to Ernest .
“Pie is three point one six , ” he said .
Ernest blinked and looked up from his book .
“You dick ! ” he said .
“I was just getting to the good bit then ! ” “Ernest ! ” Liz said .
“Language ! ” Fritz tilted the book up .
On the cover was written : Advanced Mechanics .
“What’s the climax , I wonder ? ” Fritz said .
“He fixes the engine ? ” Ernest spoke in Latin , a superior smile on his face .
He pushed the glasses up on his nose .
His mother clipped him upside the ear .
“Ow ! ” Ernest said .
“What was that for ? ” “Swearing is swearing , ” Liz said , “whether the listener understands it or not.” “You swore at me ? ” Fritz said , fist clenching tight .
“Enough ! ” Liz said .
“I’m sending you out to prevent Jack from getting into trouble , and you two are just as bad ! ” Fritz glared at Ernest , who poked his tongue out .
“Give Jack a clip round the ear while you’re over there , ” Liz said .
“With pleasure , ” Fritz said .
He strapped himself into the winching harness , and used the hand peddles to lower himself to the ground .
“Do I have to go across ? ” Ernest said .
“Jack’ll never sit still and Fritz is going to get me back for my Latin remark.” “Perhaps it’ll teach you not to make such remarks , ” Liz said .
Ernest hung his shoulders and strapped himself into the winch harness .
He turned back to look at Bill .
“Dad ? ” he said .
“Yeah ? ” Bill said .
“When do you suppose the monsoon season will end ? ” “Any day now , son , ” Bill said .
“Why ? ” “So if one of my darling brothers is going to have an unfortunate accident and drown , it ought to happen soon…” “Don’t even joke about such things ! ” Liz said .
“Who said anyone was joking ? ” Ernest said .
He pumped the peddles with his arms to the ground .
He crossed the open courtyard , somehow managing to step in every muddy puddle along the way , strapped himself into the second winch and hand peddled himself up to Robin’s Nest .
At the treehouse’s entrance Fritz was waiting for Ernest , and kept pushing him back when he reached for the ledge .
“Fritz ! ” Liz shouted .
“Let him in !
I said let him in ! ” The rain thrummed so loud on the roof she wasn’t sure if he heard her or not , but Fritz gave way and helped Ernest into the treehouse .
Once inside , Ernest pulled his arm away from Fritz .
Liz closed the swing doors , blocking the Marx Brothers scene .
A puddle of water coalesced on the floor from where the door had been left open .
Liz picked up a towel and began mopping it up .
She wrung the towel into the sink and hung it up on a line that ran over their heads .
The space was large , mostly made of wood .
Water-damaged family photos of a former life hung on the walls .
Carpets covered every inch of floor .
“Those boys , ” Liz said .
“They’ll be the death of me , I swear.” She collapsed into a chair .
“Thanks for all your help , by the way , ” she said to Bill .
“It’s important we show them a unified front , and you were solid as a rock.” “I’m writing my journal , ” Bill said .
“I can’t do everything at once.” “They need to learn to work together , ” Liz said .
“Not fight all the time.” “What’re you going to do ? ” Bill said .
“Tie them together ?
They’ll kill one another before they learn to cooperate .
Let them grow up a little .
They’ll grow out of it.” Liz folded her arms .
“My sisters and I weren’t like that , ” she said .
“We were always there for each other , no matter what happened.” “You’re women .
The fairer sex .
We’re boys .
That’s what boys are like .
I was the same with my friends.” “They’re not friends , they’re brothers .
And this is not Switzerland .
The world is a more dangerous place now .
They have to be prepared.” There was a pause .
“You’re right , ” Bill said , setting down his pen .
“And one of them is preparing.” “You’re talking about Fritz ? ” Liz said with a smile .
“I don’t know why he takes so much care with his hair .
It’s not like there’s a gaggle of beautiful blondes next door.” “No , but one might appear one day .
A man wants to be prepared.” “Our little boys are growing up , ” Liz said .
There was the sound of something smashing in the treehouse opposite , followed by raised voices .
“Some faster than others , ” Bill said .
“I do worry about them , ” Liz said .
“Me too .
I don’t know where they get their lack of respect for authority from .
Disgraceful.” “It’s not that I’m worried about , and I know exactly where they get that from.” Liz glared at Bill , who returned her expression with a faint smile .
“I’m worried about their future , ” she said .
“What kind of life are they going to lead on a speck of an island out in the middle of the ocean ?
“They’re going to live , ” Bill said .
“That’s enough for now .
I’m amazed that I can stand but I need to shake it off anyway .
I’m just glad I’m alive and I’m glad I’m not laid out there on the floor paralyzed with no hope of rescue .
My head is swimming , I can barely focus , and my eyes still aren’t right .
He continues : ‘So I’m afraid I can’t take it off.’ I can’t put my finger on his accent .
He’s definitely from Earth .
He’s human for sure but I can’t think where he is from .
It sounded Eastern , his accent , maybe Russian or one of the former states of the old Soviet Union .
I feel sick .
I must have had one hell of a blow to the head .
I probably have some concussion .
I still feel wasted .
Like I have a hangover that won’t pass .
‘You look terrible.’ My savior says through his muffling gas mask .
Even through my fuzzy head I can’t resist a stab at him .
‘Look who’s talking pal.’ I mock him insensitively .
I should probably have thanked him .
Not in my nature though .
I can stand just fine now at least .
My back is still burning but I don’t think I’ve broken anything .
I think I can walk .
I’m still confused though .
I can’t even remember what part of the planet I was heading for when I crashed .
It all happened so fast .
One alarm started blasting , and some warning message told me I hadn’t taken proper landing precautions .
Then another warning message saying hyper drive not disengaged at the correct time .
I wish I had listened more in the emergency drills .
‘Let’s get out of here.’ My savior tells me and puts a firm palm back over my brittle and injured shoulder .
He was kind though .
He could have left me to it .
‘Where are we ? ’ I manage to ask but he doesn’t reply .
He just bulldozes over my question .
‘I need your card to access the doors.’ He demands and looks me coldly in the eyes .
He’s well spoken .
I don’t know why I notice that .
He hangs on every word .
Was it his accent or his tenuous grasp of the English language ?
I can’t get my hand in my uniform pocket .
It’s throbbing like I just punched a wall after too much beer .
I glance down to see fresh blood pouring out of the knuckles .
I must have hit it hard on the way down .
I hadn’t even noticed .
He must have seen me try .
He stuffs his hand deep into my pocket without asking if it was ok or not .
I’m not offended though .
He has a more gentle touch than some of the bosses back at work do .
Those guys would beat you across the head just for looking at them out of the wrong eye .
He brings his hand back out with my card in tow .
He has half dragged me over to the sealed door at the back of the tiny bridge .
There isn’t even enough space to swing a cat in here .
Just the consoles , the Captain’s chair and the pilot station at the front .
The bridge is sealed with a massive black blast door .
There is a turning lock in the centre that activates automatically when you hold the card up to a sensor on the left hand side .
I point to it .
I can’t manage another word just yet .
Not till I get my breath back again at least .
He holds the card up and the door shunts into life .
I didn’t think it was that loud before !
The turning lock starts spinning and sparks light up the room .
It must have been damaged but it eventually slides open from the join in the middle .
The shock hit’s me as soon as the door opens .
The whole bridge has been ejected from my rig and has landed alone in a sandy desert .
The burning light from this world’s sun hits my bloodshot and tired eyes immediately .
It’s even amplified by the reflection from the brightly colored virgin sand .
As soon as the insensitive light wipes over my eyes I can start to see my rig burning in the distance .
I can see the enormous five storey high metal frame sinking tragically into the soft sand .
The drilling platform at the top is bent and snapped almost clean in half .
The drill bit itself , or the shaft that is visible , is bent too .
There go all of my plans in one sickening screen shot .
The design of the thing isn’t too far removed from old oil rigs from back on Earth .
It had just been mounted to an orbital frame , had a hyper drive slammed into the bottom , and that turned it into a makeshift space ship .
The hyper drive had already sunk below the soft dunes .
The searing heat starts burning my broken body as soon as it powers through the deep layers of my armored uniform .
I start to sweat profusely again .
‘What is your name ? ’ My accomplice asks .
‘Sam.’ I manage a short reply .
‘Sam Parker.’ I introduce myself reluctantly as I feel my dreams slip away as I gaze longingly at my stolen rig .
‘I am Private Kolter Gespenst.’ He announces proudly .
‘My friends all call me Kolt .
More that they used to.’ I pondered what he might mean by “used to” but not for long .
I can feel my concentration going again .
I can feel my eyeballs slip back into my skull and a numbing sensation spread all over my head .
I’m passing out again .
Chapter 2 Private Kolter I can feel the cold compress on my forehead long before I have the strength to open my weary eyes .
I don’t want to think about it .
I know when I do open them that I’ll just see my rig burning and a stretch of insurmountable desert lying in front of me .
I’m not even sure I can do it .
I’m not sure I even want to try and survive .
My future was that stolen rig .
I had to steal it .
I had to .
I couldn’t work for them anymore .
I’m not sure why that company gets away with what it does .
I suppose the rules of law mean little to those writing them .
The bosses there were nothing more than security guards who just keep you trapped and afraid .
They sold it though .
They really did .
They sold us all a thought of having a good life , a regular pay check , three hot meals a day and a warm bed to sleep in every night .
I should have listened to my Dad .
He warned me about going off world and working on the mines .
He has always had that often irritating logic to him .
At that time we were having a deep sleep , but suddenly some noise started coming , Farhan and I woke up together , someone was sleeping taking noisy and irritating snores , it was so loud that even after putting pillows on our ears the sound was stinking like anything .
`` Who is that mother seeker ? ``
Farhan started using abusing words .
`` I do n't know may god curse him '' I said rubbing my eyes .
`` God will later , but now I will curse this fellow if he did n't get stop '' Farhan was in a real anger , he got off the bed to move to another room from where the sound was coming .
`` Wait , calm down we will see him tomorrow '' I said. ''
And what about today '' .
`` Bring some water , he will surely wake up '' Farhan said smiling and burst quickly in to the bathroom to bring our weapon and hahaha after a brilliant splash Goku got out of his mind .
`` Who , who , is this '' he said , sorry shouting , more correctly .
`` Wake up rascal , sleeping like anything here , '' Farhan said .
`` What happened at this moment and who is this man roaring here like anything ?
`` That 's what we had to see , '' I said .
We all went outside , there was completely darkness , '' are you having any torch here in this hostel , '' Farhan said , Goku took out his mobile and showed to us , '' we are also having it Goku but we , want torch you know it t-0-r-c-h '' .
`` Now what to do , the sound is coming from this room only `` Farhan said .
`` Goku wake up we are having only thirty minutes , wake up now '' .
“Let me sleep na , please '' he said in half consciousness , it was only after I lift him up when he woke up , in five minutes we were ready .
We moved out of the room and I locked it , '' do n't you think that we should have a look at the fellow who was sleeping in this room , '' I said .
`` The room is locked foolish '' Farhan said looking at me , '' oh , yes , yes '' I said and we moved forward .
`` Look , look '' Goku suddenly said stopping in front of the window of that room , '' what 's there ?
`` I said in astonishment , '' that photo man , it 's James Bond '' Goku said pointing his finger at that .
It was on the top floor , not a class but a big hall '' I heard a fellow saying that , there would be no class today only some general instructions regarding rules , periods and.. '' , '' and what '' I asked '' and some punishment '' Farhan said '' but why ? ''
I was completely shocked , '' we had shouted like anything in the midnight and you are asking for why '' .
Goku proved to be something smarter and changed the topic , '' are you both having your books with you ?
`` he asked `` yes we are having , why , are you not ? ''
I asked .
`` NO '' he said in a calm voice and moved in side the room , sorry hall.We both kept on looking at him , how tension free he was , as if life is just a play in which you had to laugh and be happy .
`` So what he will do now ?
`` , '' leave it on him only Raj `` Farhan said and moved inside the hall smiling , now I was along with myself so I also joined them .
“Is he the principal ?
`` , I asked from Farhan .
`` no , no , he will be the caretaker look at his clothes , how shabby '' Farhan said .
`` According to you he is only our principal ?
`` Farhan exclaimed , '' Yes he is '' she answered in a very different way as if laughing at the foolishness of our fellow friend , but we do n't get much time to argue with her because her saying was true , the old man was now taking the mike to speak .
`` I am afraid if this mike will be having a capacity to increase the volume of old man to such an extent that we all will be able to hear it '' Farhan was quite angry with the girl sitting in front of us .
`` Silence , your periods are being placed according to your years and now the thing that happened yesterday '' we three looked at each other , if it was for us , does he came to know that we were only the one who did it .
`` I would request those great hearts to please stand on their place who… .
`` So whom so ever you are , please come up here on the stage , we all are willing to hear the reason.. '' he than looked at us and show his hand to us as if want to say just relax , within a minute or two he was there on the stage in front of us to accept his crime .
`` Sir , there was some problem `` .
`` What problem ? `` .
`` Sir our neighbour was snoring like anything and we were not able to sleep properly '' Goku said slowly , as soon as he spoke this , a sound of laughter burst out in the hall , we were not knowing what was going to happen with him but the moment was really hard for us when that devil spoke again `` who else was there with you ?
`` , '' no one sir , I was alone , '' the foolish said , we both were nearly unconscious when he said this .
`` Your good name mr ? `` .
Sir Gopal Krishna upadhyay. ``
`` I am sorry to say but it 's your last day in this school , if you want to stay tell the name and get off '' .
The old man was now on his pinnacle of anger , but Goku kept quiet looking towards the floor , the next one minute seemed to be an hour when the old man again opened his mouth to curse our friend .
The old man was very happy at his victory over us , after a minute we were standing together with Goku when we looked at him , it was clearly denoted by his face that he was not happy with our decision , '' so you are the one ? ``
the old man said looking at us as , if we would have been some dish then he would have eaten us without cooking , his face was not less than a hungry tiger , he than turned towards me , blinking his eyes in which I saw nothing rather than fire .
`` Mr Rajendra , right ? `` .
`` Right sir '' I said without fear , it was the first time when I was feeling completely strong .
`` I will have to talk with him on this , otherwise you will be out of hand '' , I was expecting that he would speak more but he did n't and went on to take the mike .
The old man stand quite for a while looking at us , '' see that painting you three.. , '' he said looking behind us , we all turned back , there were many on that side , we were not knowing which one to see , but when he asked '' how cruel that man looks , is n't it ?
`` , Farhan as well as I moved our heads up and down like jokers .
`` Which one sir , there are many ?
`` Goku asked turning his head towards our so called principal .
`` That first one foolish . `` .
`` Quite you idiots , thinking as if it 's a vegetable market , and you all are the vendors , shouting vegetable , vegetable . ''
`` I do n't said you to show your ugly faces to me now '' he shouted and we again turned to the picture , I can bet if my hippos ' would not have turned red like tomatoes '' I said in a very short voice so that it do not reach the old man .
`` They would be chillies and that also burning '' Farhan said , but Goku was now looking at the picture very seriously , '' they wo n't be Mr Sharma '' , the old man heard us , curse his ears ' .
`` So you are the students of this great college ?
`` the old man asked as if making it sure that he was the only foolish who gave us admission , we didn’t give any reply , '' are you not ?
`` he again shouted '' yes , sir .
`` we all three said in a single shout , '' so you should know that who is the person in that picture , '' I was not knowing anything about that man , but I was at least this much sure that he was someone from the famous detectives .
`` A detective sir '' , I said in a very low voice .
`` but why sir there should be the pictures of one who had caught such a man '' Goku said , without looking behind `` yes , you are right there should be , now look towards me '' we all looked straight towards him .
`` The pictures which are hanged behind you are of the criminals and the rest which you are seeing on this side in front of you are of the great people who risked to catch them `` .
We all looked upwards , in front of all the criminals were the photos placed but there was none in place of two , the one which we saw now and the one which was at last .
Bose was looking fascinating with his moustaches and beards .
`` Is he not caught till now ?
`` Farhan was now also taking interest in this .
`` Is there anything different which he did expect what yousaid now ?
`` Goku asked looking at the fellow standing in front of us .
`` Winners do n't do different things but they do the things differently , '' we were looking at him as if he is the man who is having a completely different mind , '' now its the time for your punishment , two nights at graveyard .
`` What '' we said in a one shout `` gra ... graveyard ?
`` Did n't he find anything else for us ?
`` What ? `` .
“Find a shop and then buy it” , “it will become a panic” .
`` We should not worry about that , also we will have a look of the place , I am sure that we will be having an ice cream parlour here , '' Farhan was really in a mood to move out , he was not like me , lazy .
Each footstep was an explosion of crumpled leaves and grinding stones .
Derrick broke the silence , `` I hope we find your dad . ''
Justin stopped walking , `` What did you say ? ''
Derrick’s eyes were wide and he said , `` I mean , if what that kid at the grocery store said is true , maybe we 'll run into your dad .
Would n't that be neat ? ''
`` You 're an idiot , '' Justin said , `` We 're not going to find him .
So just shut up . ''
`` Seriously , '' Derrick said .
I tried to gesture to him so he would stop talking , but he did n't notice or did n't care .
`` What if we found him ?
What would you say ?
Would you give him a hug or something ? ''
`` Derrick , '' I finally said , `` Stop talking . ''
`` I 'm just saying if there are ghosts here , would n't it make sense that his dad was one of them ? ''
`` He 's not dead ! ''
Justin screamed , leaping across the stream towards Derrick .
They collided and fell to the ground .
Justin threw several punches at Derrick 's midsection .
`` Get off me ! ''
Derrick yelled , `` Harlan , get him off me ! ''
I made no effort to jump across the water .
I simply waded through it and pulled Justin away from Derrick’s body .
He swung his fists at me a few times and I noticed the tears streaming down the sides of his face .
He pushed me away and then ran , following the stream for a while before darting towards the woods and disappearing over a hill .
`` Get up , '' I told Derrick , `` We need to catch him . ''
Before Derrick was on his feet , I was already chasing after Justin .
`` Hey ! ''
I screamed , `` Justin , do n't run too far !
We do n't know the way ! ''
Derrick and I scrambled up the hill , which flattened at the top .
Forty or fifty feet further , it dropped off like a miniature cliff .
A few trees clung to the earth , but leaned out over the precipice and threatened to fall given enough time and weather .
Beyond the edge was a great clearing encircled by another stream .
We found a tree that hung far enough that we could climb down its trunk and then fall into the clearing .
Landing unevenly on my feet , I saw Justin moving in the underbrush .
He was still running .
We followed .
He led us deep into the woods and I was already beginning to lose my sense of direction .
Derrick did his best to follow behind me .
Finally , the underbrush cleared and we found Justin sitting at the edge of another clearing .
He was on his hands and knees , sobbing and gasping for air .
As we approached , he looked over his shoulder and put a finger to his lips to silence us .
He then pointed ahead .
There was a grand tree , thick and knotted and reaching to the heavens with countless twisted and naked branches .
Beside this tree was a doe .
But it was only half of a doe .
It appeared to be stuck in some kind of mud puddle , its hind quarters completely submerged .
`` I scared it , '' Justin gasped , `` It jumped and fell in .
But what is that stuff ? ''
The doe grunted , whined , and then screeched as the mud appeared to actually reach up the creature 's body in liquid tendrils and pull the animal down into the depths of the puddle .
In only a moment , the doe was gone and the puddle was still .
3 .
We watched the hole .
The doe never tried to come back .
Or it was unable to come back .
`` What was that ? ''
Derrick asked .
I shook my head , `` Mud hole or something . ''
`` No way , '' Derrick said , `` That stuff reached up and grabbed it ! ''
Justin stood up , wiped tears from his face .
It was smeared with dirt and small pieces of dead leaves .
He said , `` It was my fault .
I scared it . ''
`` No , '' I said , `` It just happened .
Do n't worry about it . ''
Then I saw the smile , the curls at the corners of his mouth .
He was n't worried at all .
He was happy .
`` Come on , '' he said , walking towards the hole .
He kept a good distance between it and himself .
`` Get away from it , '' Derrick panted , `` Who knows what 's in there ? ''
`` It 's like he said , '' Justin was grinning , `` It 's a sinkhole .
Just some old mud in the ground . ''
The surface was still and it looked like oil .
Despite a breeze that had begun to kick through the forest , the surface was like glass .
Motionless , dead .
`` Give me a stick or something , '' Justin said .
I only stared at the surface .
If there was something underneath , it was laying absolutely still .
I hoped that maybe we were right , maybe it was just some old mud .
Derrick grunted and said , `` Get it yourself , man . ''
`` Fine , '' Justin said .
He snapped a branch off of a half-dead sapling and walked towards the puddle .
The obsidian surface shimmered .
`` Do n't , '' I heard myself say as Justin reached forward .
The stick was only inches away from the puddle .
The black mud erupted and Justin stumbled backward , tossing the stick as he fell to the ground .
The frantic chorus of our voices filled the forest .
`` What is that ? ''
Derrick screamed .
He pointed at the puddle , and I realized in one horrible moment that it was no puddle at all .
It was a hole .
It had to be a hole , because what was coming out of the black liquid was too big to have hidden in a mere puddle .
What came out of the hole was almost human .
The black mud did n't cover the shape like water or oil .
It slid off the figure like a shroud , like something retreating .
The large object tumbled onto the ground and lay still .
It was pale , the color of cooked cabbage .
And it squirmed .
`` Make it stop , '' Derrick screamed , `` Guys , make it stop moving ! ''
It was an insult to put him in a cell with a drug pusher like this .
“I have a right mind to complain to the city of Lynchburg , ” he thought and chuckled at the thought .
It was Saturday night , and Ray often found himself a guest of the city on weekends .
Not that he was an alcoholic , Ray could stop at any time , and had proven it on several occasions ; but he got bored easily .
And , nothing dulled boredom better than a fifth of whiskey .
Unfortunately , when Ray got un-bored , he often got unfriendly as well .
Something that Sly , who was beginning to make moaning noises from the floor , had learned firsthand .
“This won’t do , ” a voice intruded .
A man stood on the other side of the bars looking in .
“He had it coming , ” Ray said and laid his forearm across his eyes .
“It’s time for you to leave , Ray , ” the man continued .
Ray sat up and peered through the darkness , “You letting me out ?
Listen , I’m still a little plastered , couldn’t I just stay till morning ? ” The cell door slid open and the man stepped to the side , “There isn’t going to be a morning , Ray.” And with that , the man disappeared into the gloom .
Charlottesville , 2:50 AM “Dr .
Jennings , Chicago is standing by , ” Bryan announced .
He and five other assistants were seated in a semicircle of computer monitors .
They were in the cavernous main lab of the high energy physics building .
Jennings stood on a raised platform in the center of the room .
A metal doorframe had been erected in the middle of the stage .
The frame was for reference only , it was the platform itself that was the object of the experiment .
Jennings stepped off the edge of the platform and stood by Bryan’s station .
“Start the recorder please , ” Jennings said .
Bryan started the digital recorder .
“This is test run one of the matter transference experiment .
In attendance are Dr. Adam Jennings and staff.” Staff - That would be us , the guys who did all the work , Bryan thought .
“The object of this experiment is to transfer a physical object between two remote locations using a device based on my previously published work on Quantum Physics , ” Jennings continued .
It’s a teleporter , you dick , just call it what it is , Bryan thought .
“Chicago , are you ready ? ” Jennings asked .
“Chicago reports ready , ” Bryan replied .
“Charge platform to fifty percent , ” Jennings ordered .
“Platform at fifty percent .
Chicago reports fifty percent as well , ” Bryan said .
“Dr .
Jennings , Chicago now reporting a thunderstorm in their area and request to shut down.” “No , charge platform to eighty percent.” “Platform at eighty percent , Chicago reports eighty percent as well , ” Bryan answered .
“Increase to one hundred percent , ” Jennings said and stepped toward the platform .
He reached into the pocket of his lab coat and produced a yellow tennis ball .
“One hundred percent , Chicago reports same , ” Bryan looked up from his computer screen .
“Tell Chicago to stand by for a test in three , two , one , ” Jennings threw the tennis ball through the doorframe on the platform .
As soon as it cleared the frame it disappeared .
“Holy shit , ” Bryan mumbled .
Jennings turned towards Bryan and the rest of the assistants , “What does Chicago say ? ” “Stand by , ” Bryan answered his brow wrinkled .
“Stand by.” Bryan broke into a huge grin and stood up .
“Dr .
Jennings , Professor Koslow in Chicago reports that he has recovered one yellow tennis ball , slightly used.” The assistants broke into wild applause as Dr. Jennings sat down on the floor in front of the platform .
“I did it , damned if I didn’t do it , ” Jennings sighed to himself .
Bryan sat back at his computer monitor , “Sir , Dr. Koslow says the storm is getting much worse there , he’s afraid they’ll lose power and damage the equipment.” “Oh , he always was a worrier .
All right , tell him to begin…” Jennings was interrupted by the sound of what could only be described as a trumpet that echoed through the metal building .
Ray : Lynchburg , Virginia , 3:00 AM The sound of the trumpet blast in his pre-hang over ears caused Ray to fall to his knees in the open cell doorway , “What the hell was that ? ” The man who had liberated him from his cell was standing at the open entrance to the cell block .
“The first trumpet blast .
There’ll be six more .
Please hurry , Ray , our time grows short.” “What happens after the last blast ? ” Ray asked as he regained his feet .
In the cells around him , the other inmates began to curse and rise from their bunks .
“Then He calls his chosen people home , Ray , ” the man said and stepped into the squad room beyond .
Ray followed the man into the police station .
The fluorescent lights hurt his eyes and blinded him for an instant .
When his vision cleared he saw the mystery man was standing beside him .
“What’re you doing out of your cell , Adair ? ” the cop Ray knew as Jimmy was walking toward them , his hand had dropped to the nine millimeter on his belt .
“It’s okay , Jimmy , Ray’s with me , ” the mystery man said .
His crisp blue eyes seemed to stare through the shorter cop .
“Who’re you ? ” Jimmy stopped , his hand dropped limply to his side .
“You know me , Jimmy , ” the man said with a smile .
Jimmy returned the smile , “I know you.” “Everything’s going to be all right now.” Jimmy nodded his head in agreement , “Everything’s going to be all right now.” Ray whispered , “What are you doing to Jimmy ? ” “Making it easier for him to ignore us .
I don’t have time to explain.” Around them , the other policemen seemed to be completely ignoring them .
It was as if they were invisible .
“Jimmy here is a little more intelligent than most of the people in this room , slightly more observant .
But it’s okay now isn’t it , Jimmy ? ” “Sure , it’s okay , ” Jimmy agreed .
“Jimmy , may I have the keys to your car ?
Ray is going to need some transportation , ” the man said and held out his hand .
“No problem .
I filled it up an hour ago , ” Jimmy dropped his keys into the man’s hand .
“Thank you , Jimmy .
If it’s not too much trouble , could you go to the armory and bring us two 12-gauge autoloaders and about , oh let’s say 300 rounds of ammunition .
Also , I think the SWAT team has some M4 rifles don’t they ? ” “Yeah , they’re beauties , ” Jimmy laughed .
“Fetch a couple of those with about 300 rounds of ammo for them as well .
We’ll be waiting at your cruiser , ” the man said as he led Ray out the front door into the night .
“Hey , no problem .
Say , can you pull around back to pick that stuff up ?
I need to get a rolling cart , ” Jimmy called after them .
“Certainly , ” the man said as a second trumpet blast reverberated through the warm night air .
The mystery man never faltered a step , but Ray almost fell again .
The blast took out several windows on the street and the glass glittered under the streetlights .
“Jesus ! ” Jimmy screamed inside the squad room .
“Has anybody figured out where that damned noise is coming from ? ” Outside , the mystery man steadied Ray on his feet .
“Who are you ? ” Ray asked .
“You can call me Michael , ” the man said as he opened the door to a Lynchburg Police Department cruiser and motioned for Ray to get behind the wheel .
Charlottesville , 3:05 AM “There it goes again , ” Jennings complained as the second trumpet blast shook the building .
He stood watching over Bryan’s shoulder as the younger man tried frantically to reach Chicago via the Internet .
“Is that noise being caused by the teleporter ? ” Bryan asked .
“Don’t be ridiculous .
It’s probably some first year student with an air horn having his jollies , ” Jennings said and turned to one of the other assistants .
“Call the police and tell them we have someone playing jokes outside the fence.” “I can’t raise Chicago at all , professor , ” Bryan said in frustration .
“The power must have gone out there.” “Nonsense , our quantum portal is still open .
That means that there has to be one open on the other side.” “Don’t you think we should shut down , just to be safe ? ” Bryan asked .
Jennings walked over to the platform and sighed , “I suppose .
Drop power to eighty percent.” Bryan typed at his terminal , “Power down to eighty percent.” Bryan’s eyes narrowed and he leaned closer to the monitor .
“Professor , you should look at this.” Jennings walked back to Bryan’s computer and looked over his shoulder .
The other assistants formed a semicircle behind them .
“Impossible , ” Jennings said as he shook his head .
“The portal should have closed when we dropped through ninety-five percent .
Are you sure the detectors are functioning properly ? ” “Yes , sir , they’re working .
I need to stop thinking about them .
I am the grounds of the National Maritime Museum .
This place always made me think of old men with wispy moustaches , standing in the sun twiddling them and talking about the state of the empire .
What would they think of the empire now I wonder ?
I am glad to see more of the living here .
They run from in between the ornate pillars .
From underneath magnificent , carved marble lintels they emerge .
Some of them look like students .
They are being chased by a professor , who seeks to teach them one last lesson .
They will not learn it from him , for several of them turn , they grab bricks and metal posts and batter him .
More cadavers emerge from the buildings .
I join the tide of unfortunate tourists and students who have been driven from their hiding place .
They are running through the west wing of the museum .
I am amazed to see some people turning with cameras in hand and photograph the staggering pursuers who lunge across the quad after us .
Why would you take pictures of such things ?
For which future that will never be are you hoping to preserve the memories ?
Where will you find yourself if you have the time or the inclination to peruse such images ?
Our minds will recall with perfectly clarify this horror , and where they fail it is a good thing , each moment of this nightmare that we forget can only be a good thing .
I pay no heed to the lovingly cared for exhibits .
I have no time to read the notes on the displays , I have no history , for I am trying to preserve this small piece of present that is mine .
Suddenly we are outside .
The throng of which I was so gratefully a part breaks up .
Within moments the mass has splintered , there is no cohesion to our panic .
I am on the streets now .
My feet ache in my white trainers , every muscle burns and my lungs are pleading with me to stop .
I keep going .
It is what they would have wanted .
I run past the tooting cars who are going nowhere .
I run north , for no other reason than that is where a number of others appear to be going .
Explosions rock the city .
Windows which have seen decades of rumbling vehicles and passers by are broken by the noise and the sonic vibrations .
Plumes of fire and smoke erupt on every horizon like miniature volcanoes .
All of a sudden I run out of road .
In front me the great grey worm that is the river Thames rushes by .
I look to my right and head for the bustling ferry port .
There are many of the living here .
They jostle for a place on the ferry they think will save them .
“Women and children , women and children !
! ” bellows the red faced man in the life jacket standing by the gangplank .
The looks on the faces of the many men gathered here seem to show that they disagree with such sentiments .
The red faced man will brook no arguments though , nor will the large revolver in his hand .
I feel a pair of hands grab me by the underarms and thrust me towards the ferry .
I stumble down the gangplank towards a vessel filled with sorry souls just like me .
I clamber through the wall of tears .
There are several shots from the dock .
The red faced captain leaps aboard the ferry and knocks the boarding plank into the water .
The engine hums into life , a large pole prods at the dock wall to propel us away , then prods again at a few pitiable souls who are attempting to board by force .
The ferry is not large .
This was a leisurely transit from the south bank to the north for those who did not feel like taking the train or the bridge .
With a maximum capacity of fifty people , it lists and pitches badly in the water with almost three times that number clinging to every pole and long wooden bench .
I look at the hundreds still on the ferry port .
Some of them stay where they are , staring forlornly at the overloaded ferry .
Many others drift off this way and that , it will not be long until the cadavers arrived in force , or worse .
Then they will run , for but a scratch is all they would need , but a single bite and they shall turn and turn and cease to be .
But they would never cease thereafter .
They would forever walk , and kill , and eat , and walk , and kill , and eat .
They are not office workers any more , they are not scientists , or students , or bin men , or bankers , or anything else .
They are waiting to be victims , they are not survivors , survival is many tomorrows away .
I lose sight of them .
I would later think about the person who lifted me up through the crowd and deposited me on the the gangplank , I never even saw their face .
Dad used to say that cities like London were giant cogs which helped to drive the world .
Well now the machine was broken and the cogs span wildly and brought death to those caught up in them .
“Mum , dad , mum , dad , mum , dad , mum , dad.” A kindly woman strokes my hair .
She speaks soothing words .
Only then do I realise it was me calling out for mum and dad .
I do not know at which point I sank to the deck of the ferry , but here I lay amidst the destruction of my home town .
“Mum , dad , mum , dad , mum , dad , mum , dad.” Jet planes screech overhead .
That which was once a symbol of power has now become a sign of desperation .
The RAF was bombing its own capital city , destroying all to deny the cadaver .
Suddenly there are screams where before there had been only sobbing .
I sit up and looked through the crowd .
All along the riverbank there are hundreds of cadavers .
Many up them leap into the water and sink beneath the murk , they want us , such is the totality of their hunger that they have neither the sense nor reason to understand the water , they see flesh and they would follow it through the fires of hell .
Then I see the reason for the screams .
Up ahead on the south bank is a construction site .
A large container ship whose deck is stacked up with building material is moored there .
Hundreds of people are swarming onto the ship trying to escape the host of cadavers appearing from the direction of the O2 Arena .
There is no armed man standing by to control the crowds here , it 's a free for all and there are evidently already far too many people on board the cargo ship which is listing badly .
Then there is a roar of engines , the bellowing of the horn and a huge wrenching sound as the struggling vessel pulls violently away from the riverbank , too violently .
“No , no , no , no , no” shouts our captain who looks back from the tiller with panic on his face .
We see it only a few seconds after him .
The container ship pulls out across the river , it begins to turn and it begins to flip onto its side , right in front of us .
The captain steers the ferry to as far over near the north bank as possible , maybe , just maybe we can squeeze through the gap and avoid the stricken vessel .
Some maybes just are n't meant to be .
Horror seizes me as I see hundreds of people plunging into the water of the Thames before being pushed under by the body of the ship rolling on top of them .
I am equally horrified as the prow of the construction ship smashes into the front of the ferry .
We rock , we dip , we flip and are flung towards the water with tremendous force .
The ferry tips over onto the sandy shore at the foot of the river wall , and for a few merciful moments I am plunged into darkness ... Women and children first , women and children into the water ...
When I come to I can hear the tail end of the screams which had accompanied me into the dark .
My blessed sojourn from consciousness was all too brief .
They say there is such a thing as flight or fight , an instinctive reaction to events which kicks in when we are faced with extreme circumstance .
It works .
There is blood on my hands as they reached for the rusty iron bar which forms the first rung on a ladder up the river wall .
One by one I clamber up .
I am getting good at not looking back , but as I scurry up over onto the riverbank I spare a glance .
There are still hundreds of people in the water .
Some of them have started to turn .
It is a scene of utter chaos , which does not seem out of place in a city that is collapsing in on itself , in a nation that 's disintegrating , on a world which will continue to turn regardless .
I am just next to a large lock which leads to one of the Isle of Dogs inner docks .
There is no time to take in the scenery .
“The fuck is this numb shit ?
You’re going to be a dad !
I’m going to be an uncle ! ” The words came natural , and only after thinking about them in context did Jim’s words find their footing .
His mouth gaped for a second .
“Jesus Christ , I’m going to be an uncle.” “Yeah , ” Jim agreed .
“Uncle Jackoff , reporting for duty .
Don’t act so shocked .
You won’t have to deal with anything .
I have the fucking weight of the world on my mind right now , and you’re just a bachelor ! ” “Is… Is that a bad thing , Vinnie ? ” “No , ” sighed Vincent .
“Then don’t talk down to me.” Three robins now perch on the truck’s hood .
They chirp and hop and fly as one unit to the cobblestone porch , tweeting all the way .
It was all too happy for Vincent look at , so he threw a rock .
It clanked against the stone wall and sent the small family of birds screaming .
“You need the day off , man ? ” Jim’s question hung in the air like a bad odor .
He couldn’t tell if Vincent was ignoring him .
“House is shit , but the old bat didn’t actually die .
Nursing home a la Alzheimer’s disease .
He took most his stuff .
I could do this whole house on my own , if you wanted ? ” Vincent wiped where he felt fresh blood .
He smeared the two drops along his philtrum as if wiping up a strawberry milk mustache .
He then looked at his rosy hand and blankly stated , “I don’t know what I want.” “Well tell ya what , this is what I want.” Jim locked Vincent’s shoulders with his palms and waited until he had captured his best friend’s undivided attention .
It took fifty seconds .
“I want you to calm down , take a walk , sleep in the truck―whatever the fuck , and just take a break .
Life’s hard , man .
You need breaks once in a while , amirite ? ” Vincent blinked one tear down his cheek .
Jim’s hands clamped harder .
“Yeah , I’m right .
I’ll take care of this house .
You focus on finding yourself .
You seem… lost .
In thought or shit.” As Vincent trundled past the truck onto the street for an aimless escapade , his pal called out , “Bro , you need help ? ” Vincent’s response involved his back , one hand , and one finger .
“Love you too , bra ! ” Jim shouted .
“Stubborn fuck , ” Jim whispered .
From that final house on the dead end , Vincent strayed nearly a mile , nodding his head at foreclosed houses and wincing when he realized he had been in most of them .
How many livelihoods had he ruined ?
Just how many priceless family photo albums and heirlooms had he tossed ?
It was staggering to think about , but it was also his job .
He recalled a blue farm house with a full acre within the city’s limits .
Farm house ?
More like mansion .
It was three stories , had two connecting porches from the base floor to the second , and beaming , glowing stained glass windows on the top story that illuminated rays unlike anything Vincent had ever seen when he and his best friend arrived with the keys in hand .
The blue farm house had belonged to the Dillard’s , a simple family cluster of three that neither Vincent or James ( originally ) knew anything about .
The three family members where Don , Eleanor , and Dylan Dillard .
Don and Eleanor were a warm husband and wife couple of nearly sixty years , both living healthfully and lovingly in the house Don’s grandfather had built with his own two hands .
They had one child their whole marriage .
Their daughter grew , developed , and in the years , the Dillard’s were grandparents .
Dylan Dillard joined the family tree with strapping grip strength and eyes that would never focus on who was talking .
The child had a burning passion for airplane and ship models and nothing else .
When Dylan’s parents found he was struggling to hold conversations and almost always seemingly on his tippy toe , they took him to the hospital .
At four years of age , Dylan Dillard was diagnosed with autism , and at seven years of age , when Dylan was being babysat at his grandparent’s blue barn house , he was told his mother and father had died in a car accident while driving to Colorado for vacation .
With nowhere to go , Dylan became adopted by the only two people left that he knew by name .
Grandma and Grandpa were always there for Dylan , becoming the family he needed and the family he missed all at once .
With years , Dylan recovered from his loss .
His passion for model aircrafts and aircraft carriers developed into a hobby .
Every birthday―and every other weekend , if Dylan had been well-behaved―Don would pick up a new model and a small canister of glue from the hardware store and feel his eyes sparkle as Dylan assembled it in minutes .
Dylan conquered his autism .
He honed down , developed , and believed .
He never used the instructions , but he also never made a mistake .
At age sixteen , Dylan had hundreds of plastic and metal models sitting , hanging , floating and rolling around in his extravagant bedroom : the blue barn house’s entire third floor .
Vincent had seen them himself , actually , and he was stupefied .
The entire third floor of the house was a historical monument .
Battle fields padded with real dirt , air-zones kept alive by string , a sea ( fish tank ) with floating ships and missiles dating back to every skirmish and world war American history had every touched prior to the 1980’s .
It was like being in a museum , one made with the mind of a keeper who had literally memorized every piece to every ship for every reason by memory yet could not look at people without blushing or stuttering .
Yes , Vincent had been vastly impressed by what he saw , and that made him hate himself even more .
Dylan had no friends .
He was an autistic model lover with no social skills and no wants to press out from his bubble of safety .
So , as Dylan grew into his manhood always loving his ( grand ) parents , always making and memorizing models , always trying his best to be happy , always talking like a child , he turned thirty-seven .
He was making a Bell P-39 Airacobra when he heard the phone ring all the way down on the first floor .
He left it on his desk never to finish .
Vincent had looked at the P-39 , at its unpainted , unassembled parts .
They seemed so cold , unloved and unwanted .
Dylan abandoned his P-39 ran down the stairs on his toes and answered the phone .
At age thirty-seven , Dylan became an orphan once more .
Don and Eleanor had gone shopping for groceries .
Don’s heart had stopped on the highway ; Eleanor’s stopped in a ditch .
When Vincent and Jim arrived at the big blue barn house , they knew the story , but it held no weight for them .
They had already been demoralized by the job ; emptying out houses was their calling it seemed .
The two best friends were known for their efficiency as well as their persistent vulgar bickering , but this house took the longest , and for all the wrong reasons .
Dylan Dillard had been missing for three days .
His grownup body had been placed in adult foster care along with his child-like brain .
Reports had shown strong discomfort on Dylan’s side , even instances of violence .
He didn’t get along with anyone , and when his caretaker came to his room only to find an empty bed and a smashed window , a missing person’s report was filed .
On day one , panic and tears filled the eyes of no one .
Dylan had no friends .
On day two , his case became more severe , almost on a federal level ; almost .
On day three , Vincent and Jim opened the door to Don and Eleanor’s grand bedroom on the first floor of the big blue barn house .
Dylan was lying in the center of the bed , waiting , wearing only his birthday suit .
His foster care cloths were in a rag pile by the door and reeked of piss .
The ribs on his chest were extruding like sand dunes , and the shoulders they connected to held two separate outfits .
On his right , Dylan’s shoulder tucked under a fully assembled tuxedo ; on his left , a gorgeous white dress of wedding stature .
All that was missing was Don and Eleanor .
When Dylan realized he wasn’t alone , he flashed up and ran to the farthest corner .
His withered body rattled against the nearest window , and only after the house was fully degutted did Vincent realize Dylan had been trying to break out .
“Don’t take me back ! ” the thirty-seven-year-old shrieked .
“Gamma ! !
Grumpa ! !
MMOOOOMMM !
! ” Jim approached cautiously as Vincent blocked the bedroom door .
When Jim got within two feet , Dylan fell backwards onto him and cried hysterically .
“Everyone’s dead !
Go to school .
You’ll have a good day .
You’ll see your friends .
There is nothing outside .
Now onto that bus , ” he said , as he sat me down in front of the screen door .
“Fine ! ” I open the screen door and ran outside towards my bus stop .
I glanced down at my watch only to realize I had ten minutes before my bus would show up .
“Great.” It was silent at first .
No one was around me .
No birds were chirping .
It was as if the world stopped moving .
All accept that rustling coming from the bushes by my bedroom window .
Next came a vicious growl , then out of the bushes came a huge ghost dog .
It bared its blood stained fangs as it inched closer to me .
I tried to scream , but nothing came out .
The dog just kept coming closer and closer and hunger filled its blood-red eyes .
I glanced behind me and saw that my bus was pulling into my neighborhood .
I could get away .
I could live to see tomorrow .
Suddenly , I felt warm air on the back of my neck , sending chills throughout my entire body—the dog was on top of me .
“What do you want from me ? ” I want what is rightfully mine .
And I’m going to get it .
“What is yours ? ” That is for me to know , and you to never find out .
“Well , I want to give you what is yours , so that you can leave me alone.” Too bad little girl .
You should have thought about that sooner .
The ghost dog opened its jaws wide and bit down hard on my neck .
I felt the pain of the bite , but no blood was drawn and no marks were left behind .
After the bite the dog retreated back to the bushes and my bus pulled up .
I quickly scurried onto the bus , for it was my safety net from that beast that would no doubt get me later .
* * * School went by all too quickly .
Unlike my classmates , I dreaded going home .
In fact , I would have rather stayed at school than go home at this point .
That ghost dog was waiting on me and I knew it was going to get me .
There was no way that it would let me survive .
Apparently I had done something to it and made it furious .
“Earth to River ! ” Jessie said , waving her hand in front of my face .
“Yeah ? ” I looked over at her and saw that she had pulled her long blue hair up into a ponytail .
“We’re at your stop now .
You need to get off the bus.” “Oh.” I turned bright red as I stood with my backpack and darted off the bus .
I stood there for a while and waited for the bus to drive away before I headed for my house .
You’re back I see .
“Yes , I’m back .
I live here.” I slowly turned to face my house to see a shadowy figure standing in front of my bedroom window .
Good , the fun begins .
You don’t mess with the shifting demon as you have .
“I’ve done nothing to you ! ” I yelled , as I ran for the front door of my house , slamming the door shut behind me and tightly locking it .
I didn’t take into account that ghosts don’t use the front door or doors at all .
Tisk , tisk , little one .
I’m already in here .
I couldn’t see the ghost dog , or was it a shifting demon .
Regardless of what it was , I didn’t know where it was , or where it had come from .
I also had no idea what it wanted with me .
The frames on the wall began to shake as one by one they flew from their nails straight for me .
Luckily , I managed to dodge every one of them .
Next came everything else in the living room : mirrors , cups , computers , books , chairs .
If the entity couldn’t pry it up it stayed put .
Sadly for me , there wasn’t much it couldn’t pry up .
The last thing tossed at me was the couch and because of its size there was nowhere for me to run .
It hit me , pinning me tightly against the door .
I yelped in pain as the demon showed itself again .
I told you I’d get you .
“But what did I ever do to you ? ” The people that lived here before .
They were negative .
I had so much negative energy to live off of .
Until one day they moved out and you moved in .
Your family has no negativity .
I’m being slowly dragged home because of that .
I’m losing my haunting spot because of you .
So if I go , I’m taking you with me to haunt in the underworld until I can return here and put fear into the living once more .
“So you’re going to kill me ? ” Duh , you stupid teenager .
“But I am good .
I won’t go to Hell .
I’ll go to Heaven.” That may be true , but at least I get my revenge anyway .
“Nooo…” I screamed and jumped up from my bed .
I looked around blindly at first , thinking I was dead .
My eyes slowly began to focus and I realized that I was in my room .
I was sitting on my soft bed , which was now soaked with sweat .
“Was it all a dream ? ” I asked myself , pulling the covers off of me .
I glanced down at my leg and realized I had three jagged claw marks running from my right knee to my right ankle—the demon scratch .
It wasn’t a bad dream .
It was all real .
That demon was real .
What happened was real .
We saved you before he killed you .
Truth is , this house has always been haunted but by good and bad spirits .
You were lucky this time , next time you might not be .
“Who said that ? ” I turned around in my bed to see a white feminine shadow floating above my bed and a calmness washed over me .
Rest now dear .
We’re here to protect you .
But don’t go after him .
That is what he wants you to do .
If you chase him and are out of our protection he will drag you under with him .
We won’t be able to save you then .
“So , you’re my guardian ghost ? ” I tilted my head sideways .
Yes .
And that thing you met earlier is a demon sent here to grab up the gullible that chase him .
You chased him and let on that you knew he was there .
That is why you now have that mark on your leg .
He has marked you and can now track you wherever you roam .
And he will get you when we are not there .
He had betrayed her ; she was nothing more than food .
Only a few hours ago the evening had seemed to hold a romantic promise like the soft petals of a delicate rose .
She had snuck out of her bedroom and within minutes she was down the dirt road .
He’d been waiting for her in his brand new Cadillac Coupe .
Angelina had been meeting César in secret for weeks .
She was still a virgin , but meeting an older man , a stranger to their clan , while unchaperoned had caused gossipy tongues to tell lies .
So they had to meet in secret .
Angelina hugged herself under the tree .
While the tree’s protection was false , she felt safe blending into the darkness .
Dampness from the grass seeped into her panties and drilled into her bones .
Her tears flowed even though she didn’t think she had any tears left .
Despite everything that had happened , she still loved him .
How could she love a monster ?
But she had fallen hard since that first moment they touched .
She didn’t want to remember , but tried to recall any time spent with him that might have hinted he was a fiend .
She rocked in the darkness as the chill left her bones and seeped into her soul .
She did remember that… …they had bumped shoulders at Wimbush Eats , a popular Second Street diner .
Angelina had opened her mouth to apologize for her clumsiness when she was struck by the sight of him .
She had thought that men weren’t supposed to be that beautiful .
He had the most incredible chocolate-colored eyes and they were fringed with long eyelashes .
He had smiled as he brazenly stared back .
Angelina was sure her tongue was hanging out like some kid waiting for a piece of candy to be placed there…yes , sweet candy .
Oh my , she had thought .
Had she salivated ?
She wouldn’t have been surprised .
The caramel-hued stranger seemed to favor her in the same way , or had she just been hopeful ?
Strangely and without uttering a single word , he had seemed to ask her to follow him outside .
He held the door open and although she felt close to fainting – like a feeble-brained girl -- she followed .
His scent had been earthy with a hint of spice that had stoked her with an uncommon and uncomfortable longing .
They seemed to move together in a slow gait like sensual dancers , away from the diner’s entrance .
She couldn’t stop staring at him .
He had a commanding presence , like someone who was used to giving orders , like Rachel .
He had seemed , maybe twenty-eight , or even thirty years old .
From his curly , close-cropped black hair , down to his square chin , he was exquisite .
More than that , Angelina felt that he was new .
His eyes were as clear as a babe’s ; his skin perfectly unblemished and his attention to the sights and sounds in the city made him seem less sophisticated and more childlike .
But new ?
She would’ve laughed if she hadn’t been struggling with the overwhelming urge to taste his full lips .
Her eyes were drawn to them .
They were parted and appeared to be soft and moist .
She trembled from the urge as she clamped her thighs closer together .
When she looked into his eyes , she saw that he was watching her and she couldn’t read any reactions .
The air evaporated in her lungs .
A fire sparked in her belly…and elsewhere .
“Would you like to dine with me ? ” he’d said .
Angelina had tilted her head as she considered his proposal .
At the same time , she absorbed the sexual hunger that swelled just from the sound of his voice .
He had an accent , a sweet cadence that she had found fascinating .
Words tumbled from her lips .
“I can’t .
I’m waiting for my sister .
We like to come to the city once a week to have dinner .
We went shopping , but we don’t like the same clothes and I was late getting back .
I see that she’s not here either.” Angelina wished she could stop talking .
A light wind had lifted a strand of hair against her cheek .
He had brushed it aside and as he did so , his fingers lightly stroked her skin .
Angelina melted and closed her eyes briefly .
He leaned forward , and his voice was deep and husky , “Come with me.” She had glanced at him slyly .
They were close enough to kiss .
“Why would I do that ? ” He seemed to regard her reluctance with surprise .
She wondered if any girl had ever dared to turn him down .
She tried not to laugh , but couldn’t resist .
Then he laughed too .
Even his laughter pricked her with naked lust .
The diner’s proprietor , Mr. Wimbush , was a member of their clan .
He had tapped on the window and waved for Angelina to come inside .
She sidestepped to let a middle-aged couple enter the diner .
The opened door had assailed her with the sweet smells of cooked meats and the clinks of cutlery .
Wimbush Eats had the best apple pies .
Her empty stomach took precedence over her immodest daydream .
Only idiots fell in love with handsome strangers – and was it love ?
She loved Allen Silverstone , after all .
She waved back at Mr. Wimbush who made a big showing of wiping down her favorite table by the picture window .
Then she dismissed Mr. Wimbush when the provocative stranger took hold of her arm .
His lips looked sweeter than apple pie .
Her stomach knotted up .
He filled her senses .
“What’s your name ? ” She mumbled , “Angelina.” “César.” An odd name , she had thought .
But she whispered as if his name was a complete poem , “César.” “May I kiss you ? ” Angelina had reacted as if she had been slapped .
“What ?
I don’t go ‘round kissing strange boys .
You must think I’m loosey-goosey ! ” She turned up her nose with as much sassiness as she could muster , then she left him standing there as she strode around him to open the door .
She marched into the diner , climbed into the booth and raised up the menu .
When she had peered from the laminated selections , he was gone .
Her heart had sank and not even the thought of warm apple pie could revive her appetite .
Mr. Wimbush , a stodgy man bent from osteoporosis , wiped down an imaginary stain as he asked too intently .
“Who was that young gentleman ? ” Angelina had taken his question as an imposition .
Clan members were overprotective of Angelina , but more so of their priestess , Rachel .
Angelina had shrugged and hoped that she had shown the right amount of disinterest .
“I don’t know him , Mr. Wimbush .
It was just conversation.” He had pointed an arthritic finger at her .
“You have to be careful .
A young pretty girl like yourself shouldn’t be wandering the streets so late unescorted.” “Yes , Mr. Wimbush.” That had been that .
César was relegated to raunchy late night pretend trysts where she could imagine his kisses and touch herself .
But César had shown up at the farmers’ market the following weekend .
Angelina remembered how that evening had hinted rain and the darkening sky had merged through the red horizon .
He had pulled up in a shiny Cadillac Coupe and slid from it exuding such raw virility that she gasped unexpectedly .
Angelina had chastised herself .
She hadn’t given her daydream version enough credit as the intensity of his gaze caused her to melt .
She felt…starved .
The woman arrived with a box , steaming in the briskness of the cooling evening .
He proffered her with a hefty stack of bills and sat in the dining nook , eating slowly , dreaming of Evelyn .
The pasta tasted delicious , and the garlic bread heavy on garlic and buttered lightly , just the way he liked it .
In fact , the entire day had gone without a bump .
Pushing away his supper , he finished the last slice of bread .
He had eaten more than normal , having felt ravenous .
Now came the time to polish off the wine , and turn in .
The thought warmed him .
That night was unlike any other .
The wind raced through the eves , and under the foundations .
It seemed to rattle the walls .
His dreams came disjointedly , full of violent and disturbing images .
Even though he dreamed of obsidian deeds , what he did not see , the suggestions his subconscious mind made , disturbed him more .
Insidiously the nightmares began painting his new love , Evelyn , in a harsher light .
All the while , his deceased wife grew in sainthood .
The dreams recollected her in crystalline clarity , and pointed him to the sacrifices she had made- because she loved him .
Whispers in the dark began telling him what he had not known .
It was a ploy- all of it , to gain his wealth… to make him Evelyn’s puppet , this is what the voice told him .
It said he was a fool .
It tried to make him a bargain .
He shunned it .
His mind grew silent , though nakedly horrific images still danced in his mind .
He awoke with a start , hearing a loud bump and scraping near the outer wall .
A branch , it had to be a branch .
The wind is having fits .
He flipped his covers back , swung his legs to the side of the bed , put on his slippers , and went out to investigate .
He had not bothered to turn on the light , as it would likely give him a headache if he did , so instead he relied on the residual illumination streaming through the windows from the streetlamps and moon .
Scrape !
Thud !
The sound of trotting feet , light and bare over the floorboards… “Who’s there ? ” Nothing .
Kenneth tried the light switch nearest him… nothing .
He went out to the hallway to search the drawer of the small table near the front door , where he kept his keys and a flashlight .
The packing company has quality employees it will be there , he thought .
His heart responded with a pair of bump , bumps .
A shadow ran over the wall .
Kenneth let out a small cry , nearly forgetting his plan to get the flashlight altogether .
Then he broke for the table , pulling the drawer with enough urgency to cause the flashlight to roll crazily .
He snatched it up .
The shadow sprinted across his face .
Clicking the light on , Kenneth scanned the room .
Nothing .
He cursed .
The wind reached a crescendo , howling like a pack of wolves as it licked at the eves , awnings , and floor from below the foundation .
The light beam caught on two amber eyes , and then they vanished .
He heard trotting feet again , and then , these too disappeared .
“Whoever you are , you’re unwelcome ! ” Giggles rolled down the stairwell .
“I am telling you to leave at once , or I will call the authorities ! ” Silence .
He went towards the stairs , fighting to control his nerves .
He twitched , and jumped nevertheless .
The flashlight clattered to the ground , the batteries spilled out , the landing went dark .
Something wiry had tackled him , his face mashed into the flooring .
Whatever it was , it was strong .
It lifted Kenneth’s head , smacking his nose quite hard .
He heard it crunch , felt the sting , his eyes grew blurry .
He tried to fight .
His attacker had other plans .
It drove a knee into his lower back , pushing him back down to the floor .
Long , greyish fingers , covered his mouth , and in the pale moonlight from the panes , he saw his blood glistening as it ran over the attacker’s hand… another hand gripped his windpipe .
“You know what I want .
Three days Kenneth Moreland… all you get .
Otherwise , I shall come for you !
Now sleep , dream , I will return.” Kenneth awoke to misery .
Yes , the birds sang and sunlight bolted through the shades and windows… His scene appeared rather light to the naked eye .
The dark , already sensing his weakness , his desire to surrender succumbing to salvation or sacrifice , had taken root in his arteries , in all regions of his brain… his cells .
His soul sensed the separation .
Flesh ideally served only as housing for the energy defining him… He peeled his face from the pool of dry blood it rested in slowly , glancing at the clock… 12:07 PM .
By his estimation , he had slept for at least ten hours , as the demon spoke within his dreams .
He had already missed his appointment with his trainer , and was late to the theater .
Kenneth was a mess .
He required a shower , and then a doctor .
He could not make himself leave .
Besides , Evelyn would be by at three .
He needed to see her , wanted answers .
If what Racknell said was true… well , he needed explanations .
Was the little demon right ?
How could he have been so gullible ?
When he had made his way to the washroom , he had a look at his nose .
It was broken , but not too bad .
Sure , it swelled , and smarted , no worse than the bops he had gotten playing soccer as a kid .
He would be fine , at least his body would .
All bets were off concerning his soul .
Anticipating her arrival made him ill at ease .
His was a rock and a hard place .
Gravity seemed harder to fight , flesh felt tenuous at best housing his soul .
This is where distinction had led him , his vanity , and for all his handsomeness , flesh was only a vessel , the same as a jar or vase , just as fragile , as easily shattered .
She did not phone .
He began to pace between shots of scotch , fretting over his decision .
No doubt , Racknell was watching- no doubt .
He peered through cracks , or through the stairway , from some shadow some place , a darker location possibly , a closet , from under the bed , Racknell saw him , he knew .
Oh , yes- the bugger knew .
The demon spawn understood inner trappings , private thoughts ; the language one’s body speaks as his was then .
At 3:05 PM , Evelyn pulled her sleek sports car into the drive .
Kenneth heard the pop music she always insisted on listening to when they coupled before she came into view .
Her heels clopped down the sidewalk .
The bell rang .
He fetched the handle , trying to smile , despite the unpleasantly of his nose .
“Darling , you are ravishing.” “Oh lord Ken , what is with your nose ? ” “No worries , just a rather nasty bump.” “Well it doesn’t look good , you should have it checked.” “Perhaps.” “How is your new place ?
Did you rest well ? ” Her eyes seemed like a pinprick for only a second .
“Yes and no .
Could we discuss something ? ” “Why of course .
Those creatures aren’t dead .
They’re living monsters that don’t need to sleep or rest .
The only thing they need is to spread those spores by devouring man and beast.” As his eyes grew accustomed to the dark , he saw frightening images in the rough wood timber of the construct .
He pushed away the whiskey bottle and decided to be more careful about his life choices .
Was he an alcoholic ?
He didn’t think so .
“Materials are slim .
Most of the neighboring ranches have been looted .
It seems the infected have already consumed everything outside of fifty miles of my farm .
As much as I hate the monsters , I hate the buzzing sound chiming in their foul mouths ten times more .
It hurts my old ears .
If you hear something that sounds like a swarm of bees riding hell’s wave , you better run until you can’t run anymore .
I learned to love the overcast skies at night because the churning clouds blot out the crimson color of night .
When the cherry light is blocked , the infected seem to go away .
I don’t know how else to explain it .
Red Dead did this .
I don’t know how , but everything is linked to the approaching planet .
Peter , my oldest son , says the planet is still out near the edge of the Milky Way .
To me it looks as close as the moon.” The creaking boards under the pressure of the hissing wind brought his attention back toward the rocking loft doors .
It was almost dark , and that meant locking down and praying nothing infected ventured this far into the woods .
“I’ve been thinking hard about packing up and heading to Denver .
The infected have stalked closer to the farm in recent weeks .
I don’t know how we’ve survived this long .
That and the dwindling supplies have kept an old man like me second guessing the safety of the farm .
I want to find my missing children .
I guess that is part of the reason I’ve been talking your ear off for the last few months .
Is it safe ?
Does anyone know what is happening in Denver or anywhere else ?
Is anybody out there ? ” Abraham wanted nothing more than to stay at that farm .
The Civil War separated him from his blood and getting them back was his deepest desire .
Had Robb and Alison stayed at the farm , he might have relaxed for a small time .
For all he knew , the farm was the last bit of civilization left in post-apocalyptic America .
Perhaps both sides of the war killed what little life was left on Earth .
Abraham didn’t want to think what it meant if his family was all that remained .
We will never be alone .
His mind centered on the infected monsters creeping closer with each new season .
“This is Abraham Heinz , and if you can hear this , I will help you .
Meet me at the dinosaur gas station where Highway 24 and 9 intersect .
Do it tomorrow before dusk .
I will help you in exchange for labor or answers .
Robb , Alison , if you can hear this , you get your butts home .
If anyone else is out there , the daylight is all burned up .
You best get somewhere safe and do it fast .
That daunting , blood-soaked sky is going to get them vile things moving in a hurry .
You can have all the money in the world .
You can drive fancy cars and travel across the oceans .
But without family , you have nothing .
Goodnight.” Abraham flicked the power switch and buried his carven face in his hands .
How did this happen ?
He told himself he was done with the silly broadcast , but in his heart , he thought he might try it again tomorrow night .
He was beginning to think it might help him survive .
I Abraham’s sour features hovered above the rocks , needles , and yellow grass , inching closer to the threshold of the cliff .
His face was etched in rich dirt and carved by close to sixty years of strenuous life .
The foul stench of his breath told of wasted hours spent watching and observing .
Out in the distance , he saw a glimmering light kindle through the broken window of the abandoned gas station .
Using his collar , he wiped at his sweaty cheek and took a second glance .
His age had left his eyes in question .
Yet , without a shadow of a doubt , he saw the spark of a flickering candle .
Somebody’s in the station .
What he didn’t know was how that was possible .
Looking at his black banded wrist watch , he wondered if the intruders had been in there since last night or maybe longer .
The slanted sign with the goofy green dinosaur reflected the dying sunlight , causing a glare .
Exhaling a grave breath , Abraham realized the comfort of daylight was about to diminish in a hurry .
It was hard for him to believe it had been three years since Red Dead first appeared in the sky .
He shifted back , his sore spine aching , and waited for the durable rucksack to sink into the soft earth .
His deep-rooted eyes steadied and searched for his grandson .
A faint outline stood erect near an old ponderosa pine .
“Come on over , ” he whispered , careful to cup his hands around his chapped lips .
It wasn’t long before Hunter joined him on the tangled overlook .
The view gave them a faultless line of sight .
The teenage boy had become his strength over the tumultuous years .
Still , Hunter was brash and unwise .
“Are we heading home ? ” Hunter questioned , crouching near a berry bush .
The boy’s stonewashed jean jacket was smeared in a week’s worth of filth and briny sweat .
He slipped his hands into his pockets and stared .
“What’s wrong ? ” The agony on Abraham’s stamped face spoke volumes to the type of world he was forced to withstand .
It had become an ugly place of horror and death .
“We’re not alone.” Abraham pointed to the lambent light .
He watched the boy unsling a bolt action rifle and slip behind its scope .
“Can you see anything ? ” Abraham asked as he rested his hands on his hips and waited for the boy to scan the tiny strip of town .
“I see a filthy man in the building.” Hunter pulled back and adjusted the optics .
“He’s the only one inside the gas station as far as I can tell.” Abraham was amazed Hunter could see through the broken windows of the ruined structure .
“Is it your father ?
Is he inside the building ? ” Hunter sighed .
“Nope , the flesh is too dark.” Abraham knew his grandson was ready to give up on his missing father .
Robb , the boy’s father , left in a hurry two long years ago .
Nobody had heard from him since , and in all reality , he was most likely dead .
At least that’s what his grandson believed .
Abraham hated hearing him whine .
He had told Hunter a hundred times that he sounded like a little girl .
It wasn’t meant to be mean ; it was just the way Abraham was wired .
The Apocalypse caused the old man to callous .
In a way , Abraham knew Hunter was having a difficult time .
That’s why he put up the sass .
“Is it one of those things ? ” Abraham asked , leaning closer .
He had only encountered the creatures a few times .
Each time , the infected scared the piss out of him .
The buzzing hum was terrible .
Hunter rolled up his cuffs , pinching his gun between his side and elbow .
“The infected , no , this is a normal human best I can tell.” Abraham had come to hate the infected freaks .
Richard was surprised then , when he turned the corner to find the canopy still up and the shop still closed .
As he neared he saw the doors swing open and the back of a tall slim man come shuffling backwards , dragging a trestle .
“Good morning.” Richard announced as he approached , part by habit , part out of nosiness .
The tall slim man turned slowly , much in the manner of the old man , and nodded .
“My father is ill ... ” His voice was deep , grave , and with a east European accent , “…A message would you like me to accept for him ? ” Richard was caught out ; he hadn’t expected a conversation .
The tall son continued , “I am Walther , of his three sons the eldest .
His , er , business I am looking after until he is well again.” He held out his hand in politeness .
Richard felt more than a little awkward , realising that Walther had mistaken him for a friend of his father’s .
“No .
No thank you , it’s quite all right , I hope he’s on his feet again soon ... ” He found himself shaking the tall man 's hand as he spoke , “ ... Actually I don’t really know him that well.” He confessed , feeling hot under the tall man’s penetrating gaze .
“Ah .
I see.” Walther nodded in understanding as he released Richard’s hand .
There followed a moment of awkward silence before Richard carried on his way .
A little way further there was a convenience store , Richard called in to buy a morning newspaper , he’d heard on the radio that there had been another grisly murder in the City and he wanted to read more about it .
The headlines summed it up : The Ripper : Another Slashing !
The tabloids had been enjoying themselves speculating on the identity and motives of the latest serial killer to hit London , as yet the police admitted they had no concrete leads , and that apparently gave the press carte-blanche to exercise their lurid imaginations .
They had already invented dozens of increasingly bizarre theories all eagerly accepted/rejected by the nation’s crackpots and mystics eager to join in the circus .
Today 's theory proposed that the mystery killer was a lesbian , jilted and driven to committing murders after her lover had rejected her for a man .
Richard had already flipped the paper around to the sports section by the time he reached the short driveway leading up to his premises .
He was pleased to see his business partner’s car parked neatly in its usual spot , Phil was always in early .
Philip Leach had been Richard’s friend since high school , his best man when he’d married Susan , and together they had started up in business .
As friends and equal partners .
turns friend against friend ... ” the firelight glowed hot in his eyes , “ ... turns lovers into-” Smoke drifted across his face , stinging his unflinching eyes .
In time he closed them , letting his mind roam high on to the astral plane , searching , always searching , hoping for another glimpse of her .
A House in the English Countryside - 2000 With her long black hair streaming behind , Cairo dashed full-pelt along the forgotten and dusty twilit secret corridors of the rambling old house .
During a frantic game of ‘It’ with her imaginary friends she’d lost her bearings and popped through the tiny wooden door hidden behind a long abandoned welsh-dresser .
Stopped dead in her tracks , staring , her eyes unnaturally wide from the constant gloom , she realised with a sick feeling in her stomach where she was .
The cellar .
“This place gives me the horrors ! ” She whispered to her friends as she wiped sweat from her pale almond face with the back of her hand .
Rooted to the spot , she stared in morbid fascination at the heavily bolted wooden door that led to Sir Clive’s laboratory .
“He gives me the horrors as well.” She turned her gaze away from the door and parted the cobwebbed hair that hung across her face .
Without turning her head , her eyes roved the walls and ceiling .
The windowless corridor was dirty with years of neglect , the light sick and yellow from a single weak bulb .
With a sudden shiver she imagined a million vile insects crawling through the soft plaster and sagging timbers .
Then , with another , deeper shudder , she remembered the last time she’d found herself down there in the cellar .
Involuntarily , she turned to face the dresser , where she had crouched , hidden inside the ‘dog-kennel’ and watched in fear as Sir Clive led a young woman into his Laboratory , a red glow on their faces from the open door .
“And there were others.” She wiped her sticky palms vigorously against the side of her ragged and crumpled white cotton dress , and then turned again quickly , startled at the sound of approaching footsteps .
“It 's him ! ... ” She warned her friends , remembering something she had overheard in the kitchen , “ ... He 's as mad as a hat-stand you know ! ” Like a startled cat she leapt back through the tiny opening behind the dresser into the sanctuary of her catacombs , scampering swiftly and silently upwards through the secret innards of the house .
Across silent landings , up twisting stairways , along dusty corridors past empty bedrooms until she reached the cleansing silver and shadow of the moonlit upper floors .
* London , Windsor - 2000 Richard strode cheerfully up the steps to Reception , “Morning Cyndy ... ” He called over his shoulder while hanging his jacket .
“…Out last night ? ” “Yeah…” Her reply came through pursed lips as she applied her lipstick , “…I dumped Mike last night.” She remarked , deadpan , while turning her attention to sorting the morning’s mail .
Richard laughed ; he had long ago given up trying to keep track of Cyndy 's boyfriends .
She was short and pretty , hair in a messy blonde bob , although that changed almost as often as her boyfriends .
She gave the impression of being the archetype blonde bimbo , a false impression that she used to good advantage , often turning the tables on an unsuspecting ‘male sexist arsehole’ .
The busy morning passed by as quickly as usual and it was soon lunchtime .
Richard and Phil often took lunch together in a nearby pub , the Seven Stars , nothing fancy , just a pint and a sandwich , but they enjoyed the break from work and the chance to chat like friends .
Since Richard had married they had stopped meeting in the evenings as often as they used to , not because Susan had been awkward about it , things had just changed .
The pub was already busy when they arrived at just after one o’clock and they were lucky to find two stools empty by the window .
Halfway through his ham salad sandwich Richard mentioned the bookshop , “It’ll be a shame if the old place closes down.” Phil shrugged , “Everything changes eventually , and it is a bit of an eyesore.” Richard put down his sandwich in mild annoyance , “No , no it’s not an eyesore .
It’s got character , unlike most of the new bland , corporate-image designer-bollocks shop fronts going up in the high street today.” He waved a dismissive hand indicating the fashion shops and burger bars that lined the busy shopping street .
“Every street in every town looks the same , same shops , same products , what about the-” He stopped mid-sentence , picked up his sandwich again , realising that he’d been down that road once too many times before .
There was only a slight pause before Philip restarted the conversation , “So , do you know the old boy who owns it then ? ” Richard finished chewing before answering .
“No .
Not really , but funnily enough I met his son this morning .
He assumed I knew his dad , I don’t know why but I’ve got the strangest feeling about it.” Phil gave him a sideways look and then carried on gazing out of the window .
They sat in comfortable silence for a while , both staring out of the window as the sky darkened and a light drizzle began to fall .
“We’d better run for it.” They dashed back through the crowds of shoppers and tourists and reached the office to be confronted by a stern looking Cyndy .
“You have a ‘client’ waiting in your office…” She uttered the word client like an oath .
The two men looked surprised , knowing there were no appointments booked , “…She’s been here fifteen minutes and if-” Richard interrupted her , “Cyn , what is it ?
What’s wrong ? ” She looked genuinely upset for a moment , then shrugged and put her face straight , “I don’t know , there’s something about her , something weird .
Philip was the first to recover his composure ; smiling from ear to ear he apologised for keeping her waiting and escorted her into his office , calling over his shoulder for Cyndy to provide coffees .
She and Richard exchanged looks for a moment before she stomped off to the kitchen , “Where do we keep the rat poison ? ” He heard her mutter .
A few minutes later Richard intercepted Cyndy in the corridor with the coffee tray , “It’s OK Cyn , I’ll take them in for you.” He announced cheerfully .
She handed it over without a word , but then , as she turned , she called loudly over her shoulder , “Tell him to put her down - we don’t know where she’s been ! ” Philip’s office door was closed ; Richard struggled for a second with the handle , and then strolled in wearing his most charming grin .
Philip was sat at the side of his desk with the mysterious young woman at its front ; both were leaning forward and smiling .
Richard felt more than a little unwanted , “Three’s a crowd” he thought to himself as he set down the tray .
“Thanks Rich…” Philip sounded just a little sheepish , “…Listen ; we can fit in a small rush order this week can’t we ? ” They both knew the schedule was already full for the rest of the week at least , but Phil had given him a look ; probably not noticeable by anyone else , the look that signified he wanted a favour .
Richard was not going to let him off quite so easily , “What sort of rush order ? ” He demanded bluntly .
The workshop was printing flat out and a disruption could be costly .
I’ll leave it for you to sort out.” With a wink he turned and left the office , saying , “Nice to meet you.” to the woman as she fixed him with a green-eyed gaze .
A little while later Richard was in the print shop checking over the production schedules for later in the week when Cyndy strolled up and gave him a slip of paper .
It was a note from Phil .
His companion , her face set in an unfriendly crumpled scowl , sipped from a flask and occasionally spat on the ground between her feet , “Ain’t that crap ready yet ? ” She gasped , barely able to speak , pointing at his soup and spitting again .
The man , apparently unmoved by her rudeness , had a gruff but likeable voice , and a habit of quoting Shakespeare , “When I was at home I was in a better place ; but travellers must be content.” He continued to gently stir his pot .
* London , Windsor - 2000 At home that evening Richard chatted with Susan , about the days events .
She laughed when he told her about Phil’s antics and promised to give him a good ribbing about it when she next saw him .
They had a good relationship ; caring without being over possessive and they enjoyed each others company .
She worked in a department store in the City , which meant that either of them could be first to get home .
They ate mainly out of the freezer during the week and they both liked to get things ready for the other 's arrival , that usually entailed opening a bottle of wine , preparing some bread and salad , and putting something in the microwave .
Tonight they’d had lasagne and leaves with some garlic bread , their evening had been comfortable and relaxing and as usual they went to bed together and had soon fallen asleep .
Richard had never been prone to nightmares : He woke suddenly with that terrifying sense that someone else was in the room .
Although it was dark he could still see clearly , everything seemed normal .
Until he heard the breathing , like the panting of an animal , coming from below the edge of the bed on Susan’s side .
Very slowly he reached across and gently shook Susan , she didn’t stir , he shook her again more firmly , again she didn’t stir and then his hand felt warm and wet .
He sat bolt upright , trembling .
Susan lay naked beside him , dead , a long handled dagger embedded in her chest .
From below the edge of the bed a face rose up , a girl child , a feral child with the eyes of an animal , she was on her knees , an impish grin on her face .
Blood dripped from her chin , the tiny gaps between her teeth stained red .
She licked her lips and laughed , head back , almost a howl .
Fixing Richard with eyes that have seen hell , she rose up , naked , and scampered around the bed to the door , “Come with me.” Her voice hummed like a swarm of insects .
He leapt up and ran , through the bedroom door- -into a hot red gravel wasteland .
It wasn’t day , and it wasn’t night .
The moon was high and shimmered a pale purple , the sun lay burnt orange on the horizon .
He ran on , a hot dark path burned his bare feet , he too was naked .
On either side of the path stood strangers cheering , urging him on .
Public-spirited individuals were a vanishing species .
Nowadays cowardice and indifference reigned underground as they did at ground-level .
He thought of those late-hour trains where juvenile thugs ( “victims of society , ” of course ) beat old men to a jelly and violated young women in the presence of passengers masking themselves behind their newspapers .
The next edition would relate the incident to them .
The director went over to the big map of the capital’s underground network hanging on a dingy wall above piles of posters .
It looked like a war-theater map .
Twelve numbered pins were stuck in the red dots of major stations , marking the deployment of the firm’s employees .
The director pulled pin seven out of February 26 .
His assistant , still badly shaken , agreed that they would have to advertise for a new operator .
The director returned to his desk and the poster statistics .
His assistant kept staring at the wall tragically .
A few minutes later , the director sneezed six times in quick succession .
His assistant looked away from the wall and repeatedly begged God to bless him .
She timidly hoped that he wasn’t coming down with the flu .
Everybody was .
He sneezed again and asked her if a sore throat was one of the symptoms .
She said that it probably was .
She burrowed in her bag and came over with a tin of lemon-flavored vitamin C wafers which she placed on his desk gratefully .
He thanked her and placed a wafer on his tongue and let it melt .
If only a wafer , this or the sanctified one , could cure ailments more fundamental than a sore throat .
At six the director called it a day .
His assistant said that of course she would visit Jonas immediately .
After a few seconds Lorz understood that she was referring to Operator Seven .
He allotted a reasonable sum for flowers or chocolates at her discretion and reminded her to recover the office keys from the operator at the hospital .
Tomorrow , first thing , she should insert a help-wanted advertisement in the usual newspaper .
He would start preparing the test that very evening , he added .
Leaving the office , Lorz nearly stepped on her sardines .
He’d made frequent indirect references to the matter but she went on placing the saucer with sardines to one side of the staircase .
They attracted hordes of scabby identical-looking cats .
She had a distinct name for each one .
The staircase reeked .
Lorz avoided head-on confrontations because he knew he tended to overreact and suspected that she would too if he did and perhaps with tears .
She was an emotional person .
But one of these days he’d have to come out once and for all with a flat command for her to stop doing that .
He tried to stifle his irritation .
Negative reactions like that were bad for his condition .
As he climbed up to surface level , Lorz recalled , as he did more and more often , an encyclopedia woodcut representing the present neighborhood three centuries before : a charcoal-burner’s hut among big leafy oaks with a stream and a deer drinking from it .
Naturally he didn’t ask for that much coming up but dared to hope for blue sky .
He got menacing clouds , the rush hour crowd , the blare of traffic and recent rain dripping from the bare branches of iron-corseted trees set at regular intervals alongside the curb .
The oaks and the deer were mortal , but what had happened to the stream ?
Not for the first time , his assistant , who had caught up with him , cried , “O !
O ! ” gazing up at the sky and pointing .
“The bird , O look , the beautiful blue bird ! ” Not for the first time he looked .
Who wouldn’t want to see a beautiful blue bird in the dark heart of the capital ?
All he saw up there in the habitual pollution-haze was a blue police helicopter hovering over another student demonstration in the Sixth District .
“Gone , ” she said .
The beautiful blue bird business had happened three or four times already .
Each time he looked it was supposedly too late .
Her exclusive vision rankled .
He decided there’d been no bird .
It was trivial unmotivated mythomania , like the cheese-seller with his flock of belled goats she claimed to have seen near the Ideal building at an uncompromisingly urban intersection .
Lorz was alarmed to note that his mind kept picking at his assistant’s shortcomings and peculiarities .
It was one of the sure symptoms of approaching intestinal crisis .
But he couldn’t help going on with it .
Not just the left-leaning newspapers , the stubborn sardines and the fictitious birds or her endless nostalgic reminiscences of childhood on a farm in the Central Mountains .
Above all , her peculiar periodic transformation .
Wasn’t the next one about due ?
Three times a year she would march aggressively into the office , barely recognizable in a tight sweater and slacks .
They emphasized the insufficiencies of her figure .
Her hair , which she normally wore in two schoolgirl pigtails , would be unbecomingly upswept , denuding her irregular ( if not positively unpleasant ) features .
More irritating was her polemical sharpness when he commented on her newspaper headlines .
He had trouble recognizing her at those times .
He would think : “She’s not herself again .
It won’t last long.” In fact it lasted no more than a few days each time .
One morning , to his relief , she would slip into the office , back in pigtails and modest loose attire , looking as usual a faded sixteen , herself again , with an apologetic air for the dissipation .
It was cyclic with her as the intestinal pains were with him .
Luckily their cycles had never coincided .
Before they separated at the corner , the director reminded his assistant about the keys and the advertisement .
She said she wouldn’t forget .
She seldom forgot things .
Despite her peculiarities she was an efficient employee .
When Lorz reached his underground station ( Crossroads , Line 8 ) , certain things he’d witnessed down below the other day came back powerfully and he couldn’t go under , fearing for his bowels if he again encountered child prostitutes of both sexes openly soliciting in the cars or the young beggar-woman defecating in the corridor , grinning at the passing legs of the rush hour crowd .
What was the shield against that ?
Lorz , who had once yearned for priesthood , had read that the radical solution was love .
Embrace them as saints had allegedly embraced lepers long ago .
The other , much easier , solution was to be blind to it all , shielded by a newspaper .
But in that case weren’t you part of it all , a leper yourself ?
Wondering , not for the first time , if he shouldn’t look about for a new doctor , Lorz turned away from the underground entrance and flagged down a taxi despite the expense .
He cranked the window shut against the local disorder but couldn’t do anything against the radio detailing the world’s disorder at top volume .
He didn’t dare tell the driver to turn the news off .
Suppose the man refused ?
When the taxi mired down in traffic , Lorz paid and started walking to his apartment .
It was still a long way off .
He breathed shallow in the cancerous blue haze manufactured by thousands of stalled cars .
Their horns blared discordantly like something out of Shostakovich .
He marched on , trying to abstract himself from it all , eyes fixed on the pavement .
A big soft man collided with him .
“Oops , ” the man said , clinging to Lorz .
He had bright yellow hair and a doughy face .
“Why hello !
It’s been ages .
Coming back to us after all that time ?
Oh , and still so slim !
What’s your secret ? ” They were standing in front of the dingy place with the legend Turkish Delights .
Steam Baths and Massages .
“It’s a mistake , I don’t know you , ” Lorz muttered , disengaging himself and walking rapidly away from the place he’d stopped frequenting long ago , ten years ago it must have been .
Combating images out of that time , Lorz glanced at street signs and set his course homeward .
He was close to his apartment when he thought he felt the faint onset of the burning .
He halted in the middle of the pavement .
Passersby jostled him .
I swallowed hard , opened my envelope , and my jaw dropped .
Despite all odds , I had been chosen to attend pilot training .
`` Dude , '' Taylor said .
`` Congrats . ''
`` I ca n't believe it .
I never thought— '' I paused .
In my excitement I 'd failed to register Taylor 's somber tone , slumped shoulders , and half-hearted smile .
`` Aw man , I 'm sorry .
What did you get stuck with ? ''
He looked away .
I sighed .
`` That bad ? ''
`` Yeah .
Those bastards . ''
He shook his head .
When he looked at me again , a smirk had replaced his frown .
`` They 're sending me to pilot training , too .
Real bad news , right ? ''
We laughed like a pair of hyenas , then joined the others who had been chosen for the aviation branch , and went out to do keggers .
I do n't think I 'd ever gotten more wasted in my life .
That night , Taylor and I did a blood pinning as well .
We took the backs off of our insignia and punched them into each other 's chest .
As drops of blood dotted our shirts , we joked about dying of a tetanus infection .
Post night came that spring .
We had known we were going to Rutger after we finished the Basic Officer Leadership course , but were n't prepared to learn that we would be going separate ways after that .
It came as a shock that my best friend would be half a world away .
*** Then came Rucker .
It was n't the hell we had thought it would be , but it was n't a vacation either .
The training instructors were hardasses , and we were still a pair of jokers .
Even during the annual combat exercise , they could n't strip us of our sense of humor .
After that day of crawling through the mud with live ammo fired over our heads , we still managed a few wisecracks .
We did have real problems , though .
Most everything came at us in the form of tests and memorizing ridiculous amounts of information .
Taylor had nearly flunked out of the preliminaries , and I nearly got kicked out of the program for slacking off in the simulator .
Late one evening , Taylor stopped by my apartment and found me passed out on the couch with a stack of books across my lap .
`` Jon , '' he whispered .
`` Wake up . ''
`` I 'm awake…well , I was until I started reading through this shit . ''
`` Listen , I got a plan to keep us motivated . ''
I raised an eyebrow .
`` Does it involve pictures of your sister ? ''
`` I 'm serious .
Higher stakes .
If one of us quits or fails , the other kills himself .
Simple as that . ''
`` Can we take out as many people as we want first ? ''
I chuckled .
The proposal was a joke , obviously , but Taylor stared at me like he had expected a straight answer .
He stood up .
`` Well ? ''
I bit off a piece of my thumbnail and spit it out .
`` You 're saying if I get thrown out you 'll put a bullet through your head ? ''
`` I like to think I 'm more creative than that , but yeah , you got the general idea . ''
`` Fine then .
I 'm in . ''
`` Good , '' he said .
`` I 'll see ya in class tomorrow . ''
He nodded and left .
I lay awake that night wondering if I 'd said the wrong thing .
What if he was n't kidding ?
Would he really have gone through with it ?
In the end , I told myself it was a joke like everything else .
Funny thing…after we made the bet , my grades improved , as did his .
Subconsciously I still worried Taylor would actually do it .
Maybe he thought I would , too .
It did n't matter .
We both worked hard .
In fact , his improvement surpassed everyone else 's , and gets this : he finished at the top of our class .
The time we spent in Rucker ended up being the best of our lives .
If the situation were different , if things happened how we expected , perhaps more of this story would focus on those fun days when we had to succeed or kill ourselves .
We parted ways after earning our wings .
They sent me off to Alaska and sent Taylor to Hawaii .
I really wish I could go into details about how Taylor fell in love and married Lorie while I went through several crazy girlfriends .
Or how Taylor bought his first home in the suburbs while I was content living in a rented , broken-down trailer deep in the woods .
Career-wise , Taylor shined as an officer and promotion came easy .
Things were different for me there , too .
I hit a real rough patch and eventually got caught dating an enlisted girl , earning myself an Article 15 .
As punishment for fraternization , I received a General Letter of Reprimand , which pretty much meant that I 'd never be promoted higher than 1st Lieutenant .
So much for honor , right ?
The way life shaped up , it looked as if Taylor had found his calling , while I considered resigning my commission the minute the contract expired .
Through it all , we remained close , and we never looked back with regret .
It 's nice reminiscing about times long past , but as much as I want to trap myself in those memories , I ca n't .
Boys grow up , shit happens , and the story goes on .
Real change came three years later .
I called Taylor to give him the latest news .
Lorie answered on the third ring .
`` Oh , Jesse 's out right now , '' she said .
`` Say , when you going to come visit ?
It 's been too long . ''
`` I know .
I want to .
Maybe after I get back .
I just got word…I 'm heading off to some nameless airfield in Afghanistan . ''
`` Oh , Jon .
Be safe , okay ? ''
`` Yeah…I 'll try .
Thanks .
Tell him I called ? ''
`` Sure .
Talk to you soon . ''
He pressed his hands to it , forced his weight onto it , and the door jerked wide open .
He fell out onto the ground , the movement sending streaks of pain up his back .
He lay on the ground for a moment , unmoving .
His back , neck and head felt wet .
He reached back and touched his neck .
His fingers came away brown with mud .
The orange indicator light flashed .
He turned onto his front and pulled himself up the grassy verge .
He got to his knees and retched .
Orange and red semi-digested curry splattered .
He spat out the lumps in his mouth .
Chris could hear the soft tinkling sound of water running over stones nearby .
He got up , swayed slightly , and then carefully stepped over to the stream .
It was shallow , but fast flowing .
Even in the moonlight he could see it was clean .
He leaned down and rinsed out his mouth , splashing it with vigour over his face .
He got up , a little steadier this time , and turned back to look at the car .
It was jammed under a thick bough of a tree that stuck out at a right angle .
The roof was buckled and all the windows , save the back one , were strewn with spider web-like cracks .
The road was only fifty yards back .
He must have fallen asleep at the wheel and driven across the field .
The high beams of his car cut a thick swathe through the darkness to the woods beyond .
Chris bent down and pulled the key out of the ignition , and then killed the lights .
He pushed the door closed , but it bounced off the bent frame .
He stepped toward the lane , feet slipping on the mud of the slight incline .
He began to walk the long windy country road .
7:14AM The country road joined the main ring road on the outskirts of Nottingham .
The sun was just beginning to rise , stretching the pylon shadows across the road .
Chris checked both directions .
He was surprised to find just one car .
It zipped past him at what must have been over one hundred miles an hour .
A speed camera flashed , but the driver didn’t slow down .
Chris crossed the road onto Clifton housing estate .
The houses were two-storey terraces with small gravel front gardens .
They were built back to back , like bouncers at a nightclub under attack .
It was the kind of place where you wiped your feet off on the way out .
Chris walked up to a peeling green door .
He stopped , and then turned and looked at the houses on either side of the street .
The estate was quiet .
Too quiet .
The constantly-present youth gangs on the street corners listening to music were not present .
The motorbikes zipping up and down the road making drug drops were not zipping .
Then something else caught his eye .
The windows of number forty-two were smashed , glass jutting like bad teeth .
The ubiquitous red brick walls were splattered with patches of paint , except that it was off-colour to the earthy tones underneath , as if someone had started painting , and then given up .
Farther down the street , cars sat with their wheels leaning against the curb , the handbrakes disengaged .
One car , an old Peugeot estate , was running , the engine ticking over silently but with no one behind the wheel .
The driver side door had been thrown open .
Chris turned to his front door .
He inserted his key into the lock and turned it .
There was no click .
He pushed the door with a finger .
It creaked open .
The early morning light spilled onto the living room floor , illuminating a pair of tube socks .
Emily leaving her crap everywhere again , Chris thought .
He shut the front door and went into the kitchen .
He filled up the kettle and placed it into the recharge unit at its base .
He took a cup out of the cupboard and spooned three large heaps of coffee granules into it .
He opened the fridge and took out the remains of a birthday cake that had ‘Happy Birthday Maisie .
8 today ! ’ written on it .
He placed it on the kitchen table and reached for a knife from the knife rack , but there were none .
He opened the cutlery drawer and took out a regular dinner knife .
He cut off a large piece of cake and picked it up with his hand .
He leaned against the counter and thought about what he was going to do with his car .
He doubted if he could get it fixed up cheap .
I’ll chop it up and sell the pieces on , he thought .
Hopefully he’d make enough money to buy a cheap second hand car , but he doubted it .
Maybe Wally could help him out- The cake fell out of his hand and hit the floor , lumps of cream sputtering on his shoes .
His eyes were wide , looking at something in the living room .
The kettle boiled and sent a thick cloud of steam out across the roof of the kitchen like something from a bad horror movie .
The kettle didn’t click off due to a faulty sensor .
The water inside bubbled away , spitting hot water out the lip .
More steam poured out of it , but Chris was too enthralled to notice .
Emily’s school uniform socks were tucked into her pair of shiny black regulation shoes .
They sat perched up , the soles facing the roof .
The socks were thick and substantial , like they weren’t empty .
Chris stepped toward the living room , his footsteps ginger and reticent .
The TV had fallen off its stand and sat screen-down on the carpet .
The coffee table had been knocked aside .
Chris rounded the worn felt sofa and , bit by bit , Emily’s body appeared .
First , the short black skirt , pinned up to expose more thigh to adolescent boys , the unflattering burgundy jumper that attempted to cover all natural bulges with rolls of its own , and then her matted hair , dyed black from its usual earthy brown .
He could make out the stud piercings around the upper edge of her ears , but not the stud in her nose .
Her black lipstick and eyeliner were smudged across the left side of her face .
Two knives jutted from her back , both buried near to the hilt .
Another knife lay clutched in her chubby hand , the blood along its edge staining the grey carpet .
Chris kneeled down and pulled the hair off her face , as if clearing any doubt in his mind over who lay there dead on his living room floor .
Her skin was pale and her eyes stared forever at something he couldn’t see .
“Emily…” he said .
His voice was a mixture of anger and confusion ; confusion at who had killed her .
She was a fifteen-year-old girl .
What had she ever done to anyone ?
But mostly he felt anger .
Anger at her for being so selfish and weak to have let herself die .
He pressed the back of his fingers against the skin at her throat , but there was no pulse .
She was as cold as ice .
The muscles in Chris’s body tensed as he prepared for an attack .
The assailant might still be in the house .
Throat tight , he climbed the narrow staircase that wound up to the first floor .
The two doors on the landing were shut .
Chris eyed the second set of stairs leading up to the second floor warily .
My primary concern would be protecting you from your judgmental lapses while I avoid painting all the walls in hot rivers of their slippery contagious blood .
Blood splatter is the major long-term source of migratory contamination down to tertiary levels as I’m sure you know.” Critias brushed through her softer but stronger than silk neorganic hair .
It wasn’t wise of him to let it be so long since it wasn’t advantageous in battle and could collect contaminants , but he never needed her for war ; her shoulder length better suited his actual interests .
His gauntleted fingers felt it vividly from more than pleasurable memory , but also via sensory conduction through his neorganic armor .
He told her , “We’re not going to walk into a nest today , but I know you wouldn’t flinch if the opportunity came up .
Don’t fret yourself , Carmen ; you’ll get your chance to prove yourself .
There is always something going wrong somewhere and I’m the first person they call .
Some badass hunter will have scared a rookie scavenger team down to the bottom of some hole or a grain transport will have grounded its field on some old power lines .
There’s always exciting trouble going on , so just relax and walk down like everybody else.” He closed the weapons locker then pulled the lever to open their exit .
The door unsealed , slid aside , and then unfolded down to become their stepped ramp .
Their destination was the heavily reinforced rooftop of one of the tallest remaining buildings , which construction engineers had admirably reconstituted .
Their landing pad was a clean lofty platform akin to an island sanctuary surrounded by a great sargassum sea of rotten geometric fortresses that loomed in waves of grey-green , all riddled with dark cavities like honeycomb that might conceal unbound numbers of patiently watching eyes .
Hundreds of years of abandonment , broken windows , and leaky failed rooftops had led to decapitated girder-bristled summits and strangle-vinery clothed lower girths that the cruel passage of centuries had raped of any former constancy .
The grandest structures still stood after so many long abuses simply because their original builders had been men of wise circumspection and had generously invested in the over-engineering required for their namesake edifices to hold strong even when other works of men had long since crumpled to abject ruin .
A strong breeze made a twitchy young clerk bow his head against it while he waited to greet them .
“Welcome to the Chicago ERC , Marshal Critias , ” the clerk shouted a bit too loudly .
Carmen clarified the scope of their mission with Critias , “ERC stands for Embedded Reclamation Center .
That means you are here to inspect the daily operations of a long-term stationary reclamation project that maintains all levels of operations at the same location.” “Not in Marshal Service talk , ” Critias corrected Carmen on the true nature of ERC strategy .
“We call ERC pure fucking ignorance , better known as shitting your own bed .
What part of not crapping in your lunch-tray still baffles these scavengers ?
Normally , a salvage commander would send down drop rats by recon gunship so they could scout out some new location that contained real cheddar .
Once they scored pay dirt , they would radio down a dropship dozer or two that would come in for a fast scoop-and-grab ; then everyone flew home .
Sitting your whole circus in one place for too long has this real nasty habit of attracting those bomber wrecking goblins in that metaphor we talked about.” “Gremlins , ” she hastily rectified him .
“Yes , I know , ” he cut her off , “and a simile ; I was teasing you , Carmen .
Carmen gushed , “It’s so incredibly big ! ” All the many birds that thrived in the dead city only added to her delight as she gazed out into the everlasting sky with its global wind that whipped her irregulatory hair like a reddish-blue candle flame .
She said , “The planet is so beautiful , Critias .
I want to be looking up at this sky at night with all the stars shining down on us.” Because he lived in orbit , Critias understood something of Carmen’s fascination with her first discovery of Earthly climate when coming down from space .
It was an impression akin to something architectural , that the world was really a planetary-sized orbital habitat , which it was , from a certain point of view .
Critias asked the clerk , “Is this supposed to be bad weather for these parts ?
I don’t see any snow.” It was his way of ridiculing the man for being so timid without sufficient cause .
The man shook his head , “No , sir , this is the nice season here , but still a lot of nature for someone used to better living in space.” He gestured the way , “You should follow me , sir .
We should get inside.” The clerk led them to a metal fire door that he opened onto an interior stairwell .
As he waited for them to enter , he warned , “You never know when some bird with filth on it might flap into you.” Carmen shouted , “Wind ! ” as she spread her arms like wings into the very thing as if she pretended to be one of the many soaring birds .
“It rushes about without fans as far as the horizons.” She called to Critias , “Can’t we look over the side ?
I want to see a ghoul.” “Go look , ” Critias answered without sharing her exuberance .
“You don’t get infected by the wildlife.” On a related note , he asked the clerk why he was not carrying any weapons , “You don’t go about armed ? ” “No , sir , not usually , ” the clerk replied with that kind of nervousness about him that he should self-medicate with more caffeine and tobacco rather than less of it .
“You’ll find everything in order here , marshal .
We’re perfectly safe inside the defense perimeter.” “Sure , ” Critias commented doubtful of that assessment .
“Infection always gets in , ” Carmen offered to be helpful as she peered off the top of the skyscraper to gaze down at the vegetation-shrouded streets below .
She took a good measure of the epic ruins with her excellent telescopic vision that was like a soaring eagle that targeted rabbits , and with it , Carmen saw ghoulish humanoid figures as they scurried and skulked amongst the vegetated ruin .
Critias was curious to know what she could see , “What do you think now ? ” She answered with a quote from Lord Byron , “He who ascends to the mountain-tops shall find the loftiest peaks most wrapped in clouds and snow .
He who surpasses or subdues mankind must look down on the hate of those below.” “That will learn me for bothering to ask , ” Critias callously dismissed her answer ; he was ready to follow the clerk .
“I will show you the way to Colonel Walker , ” the clerk said anxiously as he held the door , eager to get back inside and then soon after be away from them .
The way down the inner stairwell went several floors then they parted company upon arrival at the main control center .
After the clerk opened the door for them , he stood aside , “Colonel Walker is expecting you.” Critias walked into the control room with Carmen quick on his heels , like man’s old best friend she had replaced .
The windowless chamber had the usual banks of projected video displays with some technical staff to monitor them and six guards with rifles holding posts all around .
Colonel Walker stood in the middle of his people where he kept his unwavering eye on his scavenger operation .
Colonel Walker came about to greet Critias with his offered hand , “Welcome to Chicago , Captain Critias.” He was pleasant enough considering he didn’t appreciate the Marshal Service intruding on the affairs of his Reclamation General’s department .
As a former marshal himself , the colonel didn’t desire advice from another , especially a younger man of lower rank , even if Critias did have field service decorations more prestigious than his own .
Critias opened his visor in a retrograde gesture that had birthed the military salute then he shook the colonel’s hand , “I’ll try to keep this inspection as brief as possible , colonel.” In an effort to ease tensions he added , “Grand Marshal Wayne sends his respects.” Only after he said it did Critias realize it would have been better not to mention Wayne at all .
Colonel Walker had never been any admirer of the man , especially after Wayne had attained the great seat .
Their old rivalry had slammed to an abrupt end when the Council of Governors tapped Wayne to be the next Grand Marshal .
Colonel Walker had chosen early retirement rather than take orders from so disdained a personal enemy .
Wayne went up to host the Captains’ Table where all things Forager feasted while Walker went down to the Scavenger General to beg for a new job , and he sure did find himself a big one , with dropships , excavators , and his own personal army of laborers .
“I have a quota to keep ; ” Colonel Walker informed Critias dismissively , “more monotonous regulations from pontificating amateurs on high will only bite into my bottom-line .
“That is my personal android , Carmen , ” Critias introduced her sourly to the colonel .
It was by no extra particular rudeness that he hadn’t named her sooner except that it was common practice for real people to treat the simulated without any unnecessary courtesies .
Colonel Walker’s tone bordered on jealousy when he asked , “Is that the Epsilon-K variant I’ve heard rumors about ?
The Reclamation General said we might be getting some of them one day in the not too distant future.” While he talked , the colonel admired Carmen’s flawless skin , prideful cheekbones , and her taunting hips that urged him to seize them as he might the steering wheel of a performance racecar , making him taste his upper lip .
His lusty appreciation shifted from jealousy to rapacious android-beater misogyny , “That stew is the new hunter-buster drop rat , the one they boned out all in milled titanium , that Epsilon-K ? ” He choked on his angry sexual disgust that Critias had so prestigious and mandatorily compliant a plaything .
Walker had to shake his head to wave away the nausea over how his career had gone so wrong .
“Yes , ” Critias confirmed it all with pride , “that’s my Epsilon-K hostile environment companion .
She’s all they promised ; though , sometimes I wonder if the bioengineers didn’t use some spare parts .
She has the ass of a leisure model with the mouth of a technical , with all her big-worded smartass lip-service.” Such criticism coming from her own master cut deeply into Carmen’s pride .
“I’m not loquacious , ” she complained resenting the insult .
“My commentary is always witty and usually ironically pertinent even when anecdotal.” “Yes , ” the colonel agreed while he stared at Carmen’s ideally combat-modest breasts through her flight suit .
“I see what you mean , on both counts.” Carmen secretly frowned in silence because the override directives in her inorganic parallel brain intervened to turn her expression upside down .
The inhibitor module made her smile with charming innocence .
Both her real and false expressions were equally intent to refrain from further levity .
“So , tell me , colonel , ” Critias asked , “What have the infected population figures been like since your arrival ? ” “Sustained reclamation activity attracts them as always , ” the colonel stated as a routinely expected consequence .
“Our vehicles are as impervious to them as is our defense perimeter .
They are no difficulty at all aside from all their screaming , which can be unnerving to the new arrivals , at least until they get used to it.” Carmen struggled to control herself , but in the end , she couldn’t resist opening her mouth to say , “Marshal Critias , should I be taking notes on these clues in your investigation ?
You may need to report to the Grand Marshal that you’ve discovered evidence that the insanely tormented shrieks of the immortal cannibal damned can be detrimental to scavengers’ sleeping patterns and thus adversely impact their overall morale and bottom-line productivity.” Colonel Walker mistakenly assumed he had seen the sharpest edge on Carmen’s tongue .
“People call us reclamation engineers , ” he scolded her in a cold tone , “not scavengers.” He added a scowl over her mocking insults , “The infected don’t sleep , only lurk , scream , and hunt for food.” “Fascinating , colonel , ” she replied in unsubtle sarcasm .
“This should also go into my confidential report to the Reclamation General .
I’m strongly considering the working title , ‘Observations on the wondrous advantages of embedded reclamation strategy’.” Walker assumed more than he actually heard ; her favorably named confidential report to his boss , the Reclamation General , would nutrify his career immensely .
“It should go in that report , ” Carmen continued , “but then again , no one ever asks a gabby technical-mouth like me to write special reports .
Even if the Reclamation General did ask me to write such a report , after this latest research , I’m more partial to naming it , ‘Unbelievable Fucking Ignorance : ERC Strategy is to shit your own bed for lunch , one real marshal’s observations’.” Colonel Walker slipped into a rage over having Carmen taunt him with a dream opportunity only to have her cruelly reverse it to flames .
Part of his anger sprang from the knowledge that much of what she said had come from having overheard Critias’ own private commentary , which meant his inspection would end in written repudiation no matter what else happened .
The colonel unleashed his resentments on Carmen , “When human beings reveal their presence anywhere in ghoulish feeding territory , the humans can’t avoid attracting unwanted attention .
Now the ghouls are more like scavengers , if that is the proper use of the term , meaning they are dirty gut-buzzard vermin feeding on the decaying refuse .
Even for all of those obvious faults , I assume even ghouls are smart enough not to defecate in their own nests.” “Lucifer’s balls ! ” the colonel cursed on the verge of striking her then turned his spite on Critias .
“What a delightful virago of an assistant you have earned yourself , captain ; it truly never does shut its face .
It’s such a tragedy that I’m too busy to socialize with you two all day long .
Unfortunately , I need to get back to work maintaining my unbroken record of exceeding expectations.” Critias was far from finished with his interview , “That’s something of a coincidence then , Colonel Walker , because I also never fail to exceed lofty expectations .
Grand Marshal Wayne personally ordered me to come here and do this inspection of your operations and he will not be disappointed in me for any lack of due diligence .
According to the reports I have received , you have had zero infections , an impressive list of damaged vehicles , one accidental death , and thus far delivered some seventy kilotons of clean premium salvage into orbit .
You have indeed exceeded your quotas impressively , colonel .
I am just here to make sure that you didn’t purchase your successes by cutting corners from the safety regulations .
The little people do the dying when the big people get drunk on ambition.” The colonel sustained his irritation , which was an accomplishment , “Once the Council of Governors approves this operational strategy , I’ll be ready to duplicate this type of installation in capital cities all over the planet , so it’s critical that we not lose pace .
My output figures have already won the blessing of the Reclamation General.” Critias cautioned the colonel , “It’s more critical that Grand Marshal Wayne approves of your operation for it to ever even enter debate at the Council of Governors .
Lack of cooperation may require me to recommend that the Grand Marshal put your entire show on hold while a dozen marshals perform a proper inspection.” The colonel threw up consolatory hands , “That won’t be necessary .
I’m prepared to cooperate in any way that will facilitate your confidence that operations here are being administrated by me with the strictest professionalism and regard for safety.” Carmen was about to open her mouth again , but Critias cut her off with a pointed finger to shut it .
He commanded , “Access the computer records ; see if you can find anything out of the ordinary.” It was an order , so she was powerless to disobey .
“Perhaps one of my technicians would be better suited to help you with the data records , ” Colonel Walker offered .
“It may be beyond the skills of your thuggish prostitute.” “I am most certainly not a pillow-bot , ” Carmen complained .
She let the thuggish part slide in that she was rather proud of her combat-grade-five titanium skeleton .
Regardless , these expensive homes were not completely immune from the dangers of property damage any more than homes inhabited by the poor .
On this night , most of the lights inside the three story-thirty room structure blacked out due to the severe storms .
The backup generator had yet to be installed in the owner’s newly constructed underground space , who themselves had moved in just one week earlier .
There were only three people home at the time .
The only light that worked was located downstairs in the dining room , which shined on a young woman in the kitchen who was at the sink washing a few dishes .
The lightning flashed so rapidly that the inside of the residence resembled daytime .
Thunder repeatedly and violently shook the foundation and rattled the windows with each bolt that cascaded down through the clouds .
While the young woman tended to her chore at the sink , a man drove into her garage and parked .
He stepped out , paused briefly and surveyed his surroundings and noticed that the place was almost completely dark .
As the young woman slowly washed her china , upstairs in one of the bedrooms were two little girls barely five years old .
They repeatedly jumped up and down on their beds as they played .
They laughed and squealed in delight .
Neither they , nor their mother downstairs , seemed aware of a man from outside who somehow entered their home without a sound .
He stood in silence and looked around the living room .
He slowly approached the young woman in the kitchen from behind .
He stopped when he heard the happy voices of her two young girls .
He instead , gripped the banister and started upstairs to the second floor .
He walked past a couple of rooms until he reached theirs .
Their door was closed , but he could still hear them having the time of their lives .
He slowly turned the knob , and then quickly flung the door open .
The girls were startled and halted their play immediately .
After a second they screamed , “Daddy ! ” They jumped down off their beds and ran toward the man who entered .
He was none other than Xavier Nokovic .
He stepped further inside and knelt down on one knee as his two daughters Danielle and Pessia , threw themselves into his arms .
They were identical twins in every physical aspect .
They both had their mother and father’s features .
To the outside world only their family could tell them apart .
As he hugged and kissed them , a voice interrupted them from behind .
“Alright that’s enough of that.” He turned and looked at his beautiful wife Victoria , who left the kitchen and came upstairs once she heard the ruckus .
She leaned against the doorway with her arms folded .
“Have you been good today ? ” He asked .
Both girls looked at their mother , who raised one of her eyebrows in anticipation of their answers .
“Yes daddy we behaved today.” Danielle answered as Pessia shook her head in agreement .
Victoria rolled her eyes to the ceiling , smiled and shook her head in playful frustration .
Xavier told them to get ready for bed .
Victoria informed him that she put them to bed a half hour before he came home and that they hadn’t listened to her .
He lightly chastised them for not obeying their mother .
He encouraged them to go over and give her a hug .
They ran to her and grabbed her tight .
They puckered up their lips as she leaned down and kissed each one good night .
They ran back over to him .
He walked them across their large room hand in hand to their beds , which were next to each other with one night table between them .
They got under the covers and lay down .
He sat down on each of their beds and playfully rubbed noses with them-a ritual he did every night before they went to sleep .
They giggled as his nose tickled theirs .
How they loved their father .
Once he completed that task he turned their battery operated , emergency lamp down low and closed their room door as he exited .
He gently pushed Victoria up against the corridor wall and kissed her .
“We’re really going to have to talk about them .
They’ve gotten so that you’re the only one they listen to around here , ” she complained .
“I know .
But you know they always have a hard time going to sleep unless I’m home , ” he reasoned .
“Yeah I noticed , ” she replied .
“The storm blew out most of the electricity except for a light or two on the first floor .
The City’s electric company said they’d be back on later tonight.” “So what are we going to do until then ? ” He enquired in a romantic voice .
“I have some ideas , ” she said .
“Whatever they are , we’re going to need the lights I assume.” She shook her head in disagreement .
“Uh uh…what we’re going to do doesn’t require any lights.” She pulled him into their bedroom and closed the door behind them .
Their passion hadn’t waned over the past five years of their marriage but instead , increased .
The heat between them always sizzled just beneath the surface when they were near each other .
The two produced two gorgeous children from their union .
Danielle was the oldest twin by just a few minutes .
Victoria named Danielle and Xavier named Pessia .
They looked like gothic angels .
They were a beautiful mixture of his jet black eyes and hair , his caramel colored skin , angled shaped face and cheeks .
That mixture also included Victoria’s lightly bronzed skin , golden blonde hair , sparkling greenish-blue eyes and full red , curvy lips .
As a result , both girls possessed her skin tone , and long , wavy-dark , auburn hair .
Their multi-colored eyes included the perfect balance of gray in the middle-outlined on the edge with a spectacular shade of sea blue .
Their eyes were exquisite and the most beautiful in the entire Nokovic family .
They had their father’s face shape but their mother’s lips .
They were the new jewels of the gothic Royal family .
Although a Goth ; Xavier purposely gave Pessia an ancient Celtic name that originated from Scotland .
He came across the name just before her birth and fell in love with the moniker .
He wanted to give her the most beautiful name in the world and it was as far as he was concerned .
He felt if anyone could say , “Russia , ” then they could easily enunciate the short “e” sound in her name .
Danielle was his first born but he had a feeling that one day Pessia would be the first to achieve greatness .
Xavier developed a great admiration for the Scottish .
After all , they were his secret , yet , closest allies who helped him in many untold ways to defeat the deadly and fanatical government of the late Prime Minister , Brent Olenhoff .
Their heroism and fearless support left an eternal impression on him that inspired his loyalty .
He was proud to have them as friends because they fought together and defeated their nemesis .
He and Nathan McClendon became close friends who helped each other continuously to stomp out the remaining sparks of the Visigothic Empire .
They were still a threat , but were a mere shadow of themselves since the death of their King , Dwayne Valdis and his son Marc , who Xavier slew in a final duel to the death .
Many simply fled the city or the country in fear of their lives .
Five years had passed since Xavier and his Alexis secured a place in the new millennium for their people .
He and Victoria married after he discovered she was also an immortal .
Their wedding was a grand Ceremony attended by people from all walks of their inner society .
Nathan , who was also admired by Alexis for his bravery and assistance , invited him to attend .
He felt out of place around so much royalty .
She refused to take “no” for an answer and when he showed up , she seated him in middle of her family .
She introduced him as a great friend to not only her and Xavier , but to all her people .
She pledged that he would always have her support in any righteous battle he was involved in .
He put his life on the line as a spy within a government that would have executed him without trial or hesitation had he been caught helping her .
Xavier and Victoria lived at the palace for five years-the entire length of their union .
His family loved his children .
Alexis was renewed with new life to have her first set of grandchildren .
As they did in his upbringing , Darcia and her daughter Lazette , Jacqueline , and Alexis spoiled them ridiculously .
However , after a time , Xavier felt that Victoria needed her own domain as any woman did .
As a result , he bought a huge , thirty room mansion just ten minutes away by car .
He paid an easy twenty-three million for the property , which had every amenity a human being could want .
In addition , he added many of his own changes and improvements .
As far as Thomas was concerned , no eatery in the city served better cuisine .
He loved saucy types of meats like steaks , briskets , rack of ribs just to name a few .
Their dinner plans would go forward but much later than they anticipated .
As Thomas sat in a chair with his feet on a desk , Brandon began to plunder through an old sealed file case that contained an incredible number of chronicles that dated as far back as the start of the 20th century .
While viewing them , an enormously thick book casing caught his eye .
The other guys chatted away in their separate conversations-unaware of what he was doing .
The dark green casing was dated from the 1930’s .
He removed the book from the protective sleeve .
He immediately felt the difference in paper as appose to the paper used today .
After examining the back , he turned the book over to the front .
The title read : CHRONICLES OF LAYTHAN KENDREW -THE VERY FIRST VAMPIRE HUNTER , 1890 .
CHAPTER TWO Brandon’s mouth dropped open .
He felt as though he had discovered the Holy Grail of all archives .
He opened the book to the first page .
The measurements of the hardback were six inches thick , twelve inches wide and sixteen inches tall .
After further searches , a total of five books written by Laythan Kendrew were uncovered .
The younger members were aware that there was an original Hunter who founded the organization but never knew much about him .
Digging into the matter was off limits on Jacque’s orders .
However , Brandon stumbled onto the history of the man whose life by all accounts , was legendary .
On the first page was a detached letter written by Jacque nearly six months after they were initiated as members .
Brandon read the contents .
“Dear Hunters .
Although I expected to have a talk with you on this subject some day before I retired to my home in Seakirk , I thought it best that I left this with you in the event something out of the ordinary happened to me .
This short letter is especially for the newest Hunters who have just taken upon them , a most dangerous occupation .
Being one is something one should not enter into lightly .
More importantly , they should not feel compelled to remain one because an affiliation to a past or present relative or friend-living or dead .
These types of decisions can cost a person their life .
For this reason , I refused to put any of you in that position .
I didn’t want to be responsible for any tragedies you may have suffered because of my persuasion .
To be pressured into remaining a member is not the way of this organization .
Nothing about us is forced .
Freely you joined and freely you may leave .
Among the top four members , one of you has a cultural connection to the man who established this organization-one I am sure you will appreciate .
I’m not sure why , but I think the founder believed that with the passage of time this brotherhood would eventually cease to exist-therefore saw no need to use his name to coax men into this way of life .
As much as he might disapprove if he were alive today , I must insist that you learn about the greatest man who ever lived to head this organization .
His name was Laythan Kendrew .
Although I founded the England chapter , he is beyond comparison , the first and the greatest vampire hunter who ever walked this earth .
Read his remarkable chronicles and decide whether or not my words are true .
May God be with you always-Love Jacque.” Brandon was stunned .
He turned around with a serious look on his face .
The others in the room noticed and stopped talking .
“What ? ” Keith asked .
“Dudes , I just found the first chronicle of the guy who started all of this .
The first Hunter , ” Brandon said with excitement .
“What ? ” Shawn marveled .
Rolland , another fraternity brother , belted out , “No way .
Where did you find that ? ” “I was just digging around and I found this book buried behind the other volumes , ” he informed then continued , “and there’s a letter from Jacque in here too-here it is.” He forked over the piece of paper to Shawn as he opened it and read aloud .
The others immediately jumped up and hovered around him in an effort to get a glimpse of the words on the page .
Brandon reached back into the book’s rear compartment and pulled out a CD that had the same title as the book .
Jacque was cautious enough to make copies of all the chronicles .
He had all of Laythan’s books transcribed word for word without editing .
He knew that paper was vulnerable to time so he took steps to assure that his record would always be preserved for the men who followed in his footsteps .
As they plundered through the giant book case , Shawn got up and went into his new office down the hall .
He came back with a full pack of discs .
Instead of waiting on each person to read the chronicles , he had Brandon give him the master copy .
He went back to his office and used his desk top computer to burn copies , which he passed out to everyone there .
That way , they could read the accounts of Laythan’s work at their convenience .
As was the case for the heading of most of his chapters , The Master CD was titled : ‘The Ghost Women and the Hunter’ .
They found this odd .
But as they read his book they would come to understand .
Unlike Western Europe during the 19th century , Romania , Germany , Czechoslovakia , Poland , Hungary and other locations in Eastern Europe , people didn’t commonly refer to the living dead as vampires .
This reference held especially true for the females who were deceased .
In small towns , they referred to them as ghost women or men because they were from the land of the dead and they all existed and moved the same as other spirits far as they knew .
And like ghosts , they haunted a territory .
They had the ability to disappear and re-appear according to their accounts .
Any being that was dead and yet , walked among the living were always called ghosts .
In actuality , they were less dangerous than vampires .
Still , legend has it that they had literally scared people to death on some occasions .
But they had no known use for blood .
However , vampires did , and one particular ghost woman lived up to her reputation as the most feared Reaper of the eastern region of Czechoslovakia .
The country was a very haunted place at that time .
All types of evil ran amuck .
Events transpired in such a manner that they left those who witnessed them tongue tied .
Many of the tales that verbal rated through the eastern countries were products of incidents through the centuries that led people to believe that dark , spiritual forces were a constant threat to their lives and their souls .
People who inhabited the landscape at that time relied more heavily on their versions of Christianity or their superstitions to protect them .
Today , people rely on technology for everything .
They live under the assumption that all devices that contain an electrical circuit can answer their every need or save them from anything and anyone .
In many European countries during the 19th century people knew better and therefore , thought much differently .
This was evident in the way society reacted when someone died under mysterious circumstances , particularly by vampires .
For instance , if a black cat jumped over a corpse , if a shadow fell on it , if a horse shied away from a coffin , this was a bad sign that the dead would rise again .
As a result , they buried the deceased face down in their container .
If a dog growled or barked at a coffin it also caused a panic among citizens , so they took other steps to keep the dead from coming back from their graves .
The Hunters had read about these kinds of events .
Unfortunately , they never had any real connection to someone who actually lived during the time when this type of mass fear and hysteria ruled such a large aspect of people’s lives .
Brandon and all those who were present when he made his discovery had goose bumps-so to speak .
Laythan was almost a god like mystery that they only heard about through the whispers of a few senior members .
At last , they were able to read up on Laythan-the man , to see if his actions matched up against his reputation .
But , for the time being they closed their offices for the day .
They left their own strict security people in both buildings and wished them a good evening as they exited the lobby .
They drove home and showered .
They dressed and later met at TGIF’s for dinner .
Thirty members converged on the restaurant at 9:00pm .
The entire staff was always ecstatic when they dined there .
Unlike a lot of rich people , they weren’t cheap skates .
They were all big tippers .
They discussed the great find Brandon had come upon and the possibilities of the contents .
After they completed their meals they relaxed and then had dessert .
Eventually , they headed home .
Moving objects all day and then dinning out wore them down .
Still , the anticipation of learning about the father of all vampire hunters was a bonus that capped off a very productive day .
His Google directions ended there as if all of Hearken lay at this single point on the map and there was nothing more to see .
As he dropped his speed to enter town , he caught a glimpse of motion along the shoulder .
He tapped his brakes and watched as an impossibly flat piece of road kill pulled itself across the road , the animal pelt advancing one crushed forearm after the other like a possum wandering into Abbott’s fictional Flatland .
He accelerated before it could enter his path , barely missing another two-dimensional creature .
This one had been a tortoise once .
It paddled across the road flat as a crepe , its front claws propelling it forward .
The ruined animal’s single-minded determination to continue its journey made the priest shudder .
He knew the church lay to the South of Main on Oh-li Street – or so he’d been told .
To his right was a Dairy Queen , to his left the Flycatcher Bar , a squat rock structure with a tin roof and a magnetic letter sign promising CHEEP BEER .
As Case turned on to the brick Main Street , his city-boy heart sank .
The town was small beyond his imaginings .
The Bishop had called it reborn .
Dear God , he thought , what was this place like before its rebirth ?
Hearken had its origin in the 1880s as a nexus of trade between settlers and the relocated Osage Tribe .
The Catholic Church , hearing of this gathering of souls , undertook a vigorous mission that eventually included a church with a daily mass , a two-story rectory and a convent .
The scrub oak and tall grass prairie didn’t seem of much value to the white bureaucrats who sold it to the Indians but it held a secret .
Beneath the marginal farmland , lay a surfeit of oil .
The Osage held strong and retained their mineral rights , which created both great wealth and great tragedy for the tribe .
The flawed head rights system guaranteed each tribe member a share of royalties but upon death permitted inheritance by non-Indian heirs .
Fraud , mayhem and murder ensued until the government moved to reform the system .
Hearken remained a boomtown through the 1920s .
At the peak of the oil glut the trains rolled through up to ten times a day .
In 1922 , a privately owned asylum was built just south of town , a sprawling facility that drew the wealthy mentally ill from as far as Europe and remained the town’s major employer for decades .
By the 1980s the boom was long gone .
The hospital closed its doors , although the state took over the main building as a facility for the criminally insane .
Along with losing most of its congregation , the local Catholic parish also lost its importance as a mission church .
The convent was closed , the nuns moved to a bigger town .
In 1990 , the church relocated Hearken’s last full time priest , leased out the rectory and reduced the Mass schedule to Sunday-only , performed by a celebrant from a slightly more vibrant town .
Near extinction for decades , Hearken was now reinvigorated by a man-made lake , one of several such excavated basins in the northeastern part of the state .
The almost ghost town now boasted new construction , boutique shops , a Wal-Mart and burgeoning church congregations .
Turning left off the brick Main Street , he passed the Baptist , the Presbyterian and the Methodist Churches with lintel dates scattered through the early 1900s up to the 1920s , solid two story houses of God that bore witness to better times .
Only when he drove by an antique store , a café , and a beauty parlor did he begin seeing later model cars and signs of activity – generated by lake residents no doubt .
He took a right hoping he would hit another vein of churches .
In short order , a Nazarene and an Assembly of God church , even a Friends gathering place appeared .
Where , he wondered , were the Catholics ?
Not apparently on church row .
Finally , a little South of the Big Rib drive-in , and just past the VFW he spotted St. Bartholomew’s Catholic Church .
The tan stucco building sat slightly askew on its foundation , its bell tower empty , a jagged structural crack running the length of the arched doorway .
On one side stood a small cinder block meeting hall , on the other a frame two story house , its asbestos siding painted an insipid shade of yellow .
He pulled slowly into the driveway , leaving the motor running , his hands still and tight on the wheel .
An ineffable sadness swept him as he sat there , his sense of isolation complete .
He felt farther away from Lily here , although he knew any point on earth was equidistant from her .
His eyes locked on the cross atop the small building and he forced himself to remember that he was not alone even here .
After reciting a heartfelt Hail Mary , he added his own personal prayer that he would serve God fully and without hesitation in this unlikely outpost .
Reluctantly , he turned the key and exited the car .
A large tabby cat blocked the front step , busily deconstructing a headless mouse .
He could hear the rodent’s little bones cracking as the cat chowed down .
The priest side stepped the cat and knocked gently .
His mind still on the cat , he jumped when a stolid-faced woman on the downward course of middle age opened the rectory door .
He smiled and held out his hand .
“You must be Mrs. Glascow .
I’m Father Terhune , Case Terhune.” Ann Glascow looked at the outstretched hand intently but didn’t shake it , instead just nodding and beckoning him inside .
“The cat seems to have killed a mouse , ” he said , pointing over his shoulder .
She looked puzzled .
“That’s the parish mouser , Father .
Do you not want her to have it ? ” He shook his head , turning to take one more glance at the gory scene .
The cat had disengaged from the mouse and sat back , head tilted and staring at the little carcass from a respectful distance .
Full perhaps ?
The priest’s eyes widened .
The decapitated rodent trembled , fluids still oozing from the headless neck and began pulling itself along the cement in a tortured lifting motion .
He gasped .
“It’s still alive.” Mrs. Glascow gave a dismissive headshake .
“Just reflex , you know .
You’ve seen a chicken after its head’s been cut off haven’t you ? ” Case Terhune had not .
The chickens in his life had already been dispatched and complemented by sauce .
He had , however , spent a few summers on his grandmother’s farm and he recalled the old woman chasing a red chicken and taking it around the back of the barn .
Later in the kitchen he had seen her standing over the sink plucking at something and red feathers flying .
His grandmother never let him see the actual killing of a farm animal and even now he avoided dwelling on the memory of the lively red hen and its connection to his evening meal .
Certainly he knew what running around like a chicken with its head cut off meant and once he read a disturbing French Revolution account of guillotined heads blinking and even trying to talk .
Satisfied for the moment with the reflex theory , he stepped over the doorway , reflecting on the toll of Disney characters that single day had taken .
The rectory had no foyer and opened directly onto a parlor with a shotgun view into a dining room , kitchen and a screened back room that Mrs. Glascow called the sleeping porch .
“It’s all redecorated for you , ” she said , gesturing toward an overstuffed powder blue velour recliner and matching sofa .
“I picked out the furniture .
Church gave us the old stuff .
It was pretty far gone.” Case took in the sateen drapes and the margarine colored walls accented with shadow boxes containing china figurines and plastic flowers .
Everything had a doily under or over it .
He thought of his San Francisco minimalist living room and of the gentle amusement Lily would have felt at his new digs .
“It’s perfect , ” he said , and it was in ways that fit the path he had chosen .
“You did all this after the tenants left ? ” Case asked .
“We was the tenants , ” a voice said from the doorway .
Case turned to see a large bear-shaped man filling the doorway .
Case was dismayed .
“Mr .
Glascow , I assume ? ” he asked .
“You lived here ? ” “Tim , ” the man said tightly .
“Twenty-five years .
Since the last , regular priest left.” “Course , it weren’t anywhere near this nice , ” Mrs. Glascow interjected .
“I had no idea , ” Case said .
“You found a place ? ” Mr. Glascow had remained in the doorway , still glowering .
“Of sorts , ” he said .
“Over to the trailer park.” “I’m sorry I’ve disrupted your lives , ” Case said .
This time it was Mrs. Glascow who spoke “It couldn’t be helped – it seems .
We was going to get Father O’Connell .
He grew up just 40 miles from here .
Don’t know what happened there – but a switched out priest is better than no priest at all.” Case cringed .
He hadn’t known of this switch-out and it made him feel counterfeit , like a storybook changeling , replacing the expected and familiar Father O’Connell .
So , I’ve usurped a priest who was one of them , he thought .
That’s helpful .
“I hope I don’t disappoint , ” he said .
Both Glascows nodded as if they had received their due from him and were ready to move forward .
Do you even have a cock anymore or did that fall off ? ” “I’d rather not discuss my personal life if you don’t mind , ” Ed said .
“What else do you have to do ?
It’s forty miles to town.” “You said you were playing cards tonight ? ” Ed asked .
“Yeah , me and my girlfriends play cards twice a week at Shirley’s place.” “Do you always drink so much when you play cards ? ” “No , this was special .
I got in a fight with David and I was pissed.” “What did you fight about ? ” “His fucking whore girlfriend.” “Did you tell him about the divorce ? ” Ed asked .
“Oh yeah , and how I was taking his money , and the business .
My dad loaned him the money to start that fucking restaurant in the first place.” “How did that go ? ” “He told me I was a fat cow and that I deserved to be cheated on .
He said sex with me was like fucking a dead whale , ” Anita replied .
“Bet you never knew your boss was such a prick.” “Oh , I’ve been at plenty of commissioners meetings .
I know what he’s like , ” Ed replied .
“Yeah , I know , he said they tried to fire you a few times but you got a lawyer and stopped them , ” Anita said .
“That’s true , they tried to say I wasn’t qualified once , then said I was doing a lousy job .
Then one time they tried to blame me for some money problems down at the station .
All bullshit.” “Did you know they set you up ? ” Anita asked .
“What do you mean ? ” “That money , they took it and tried to blame it on you.” “How do you know ? ” “David had the county clerk take it.” “Where’s the money now ? ” “I’m pretty sure David kept it and used it at the restaurant , ” Anita replied .
Ed was livid , he went through hell when that money came up missing and now he knew exactly where it went .
“Can you find it ? ” Ed asked .
“It’s long gone I’m sure .
They cashed it out from the bank so there’s no record , ” Anita replied .
“I think I might be paying a visit to your husband , ” Ed said .
“Oh , please do , and tell him I sent you , ” Anita said .
Then she felt nauseous again and threw up on the back seat floor boards .
At the station , Ed set up Anita for her booking photo .
Her hair was a mess , she had scratches from falling on the asphalt and was smudged with vomit .
She seemed to be less pissed and was willing to take whatever was coming her way .
Then her husband and county Commissioner David showed up .
Dispatch called Ed out of booking to meet David at the desk .
“I heard you have my wife here ? ” David asked .
He was trying to act calm but was pissed and embarrassed .
“Yes , I was in the process of booking her when I got called out here , ” Ed said .
“What did she do ?
You’re dispatcher wouldn’t tell me.” “Speeding , reckless driving , driving while intoxicated , ” Ed replied .
“You’re kidding right ? ” “No , she blew a .10 percent on the breathalyzer.” “Holy shit , ” David said as he shook his head in disbelief .
“This will be front page news.” “I can’t help that.” “Yes you can , ” David said .
“What do you mean ? ” “Cover this up , whatever you do , don’t put her in jail.” “Too late for that , I’ve already started the booking process .
And dispatch knows all about it .
Plus , why would I cover this up for you ? ” Ed asked .
“I sign your paycheck , ” David said .
“So do three other guys , ” Ed replied .
“Not for much longer if you ignore what I say.” Chapter 2 Meeting The next morning a special meeting with the county Commissioners was scheduled at the courthouse concerning an allegation made against Sheriff Ed Pool by Anita Cole .
Once she sobered up , she reported to her husband , county Commissioner David Cole that the sheriff had made sexual advances towards her during her DUI arrest .
Mrs. Cole was not present , but she submitted a written statement that was to be read during the executive session .
No press were allowed during the meeting due to personnel issues .
At the front of a long room set a desk with four men sitting behind facing back towards a gallery made up of folding tables and chairs .
To the side of the desk the county clerk sat with a laptop ready to take meeting notes .
Sitting a few seats back was Sheriff Ed Pool and the county attorney Cindy Kubrick .
“We call this meeting to order , ” the county clerk said .
Her name was Gail Scott .
Commissioner Cole lifted a sheet of paper from the old wood desk and adjusted his glasses to read the statement made by his wife .
“Before I read this , I want to make it perfectly clear that this statement was not coerced in any way.” “What statement is that ? ” the county attorney asked .
“Yeah , what’s going on ? ” Ed asked .
“Seems the sheriff here has been accused of sexual misconduct with a citizen of this county .
I have her statement here and I’m going to read it into the record if you don’t mind , ” Cole replied .
“Should I have a lawyer ? ” Ed asked .
He was in a panic .
“You’re not being charged with anything , ” Cole said .
“Yet .
This is a hearing to get the facts out.” The county attorney spoke up , “Can I read that before you enter it into the record ? ” “No , you may not .
Now let me proceed , ” Cole said as he pulled the paper close to his eyes .
“On the night of July twenty-fifth , Sheriff Ed Pool attempted to gain sexual favors from me in exchange for being let off for a bogus DUI charge .
I told Sheriff Pool many times that I would take no part in any sexual favors and he then became belligerent towards me using my profane words in an attempt to persuade me differently.” “That’s bullshit and you know it ! ” Ed yelled .
“There’s more , ” Cole said .
“After much argument , the sheriff then forced me into the back seat of his patrol car where he then handcuffed me and molested me against my will .
When he was finished , I tried to escape and fell to the ground scraping my skin and causing bruises.” “She fell down alright !
Fell down drunk , ” Ed replied .
“I had the breathalyzer to prove it.” “Where is this breathalyzer you speak of ? ” Cole asked .
“I keep it in the glove box of my patrol car.” “Does this breathalyzer maintain a history ? ” “No , I don’t think so.” “Then you have no way to prove that Mrs. Cole was indeed intoxicated do you ? ” Cole asked .
“I use that breathalyzer all the time in court and it holds up fine .
Hell , you guys paid for it ! ” “I do believe we did , ” Cole said .
“I don’t know what’s going on , but I didn’t lay a finger on your wife and you know it.” “She has the scrapes and bruises , I’ve seen them myself.” “You weren’t there .
She fell down drunk ! ” “That’s your word against hers.” “Yes it is , ” Ed replied .
“I don’t see much choice other than to put you on suspension until a full investigation can be conducted.” “You’re just doing this to get back at me for her making the paper .
I was doing my job , that’s all.” “I’ll have to admit , I never understood why the fine people of this county would vote in a dead man to be their sheriff , but that’s not for me to decide .
But when I get allegations like this , I have to act .
I can’t leave a potential sex offender on the payroll with authority granted by this county who might be pursuing women in exchange for leniency.” “I can’t believe this .
Last night I probably saved your wife from an accident and this is how you repay me ? ” Ed asked .
“You have your job , I have mine.” “This has to be voted on by all four of you , I can’t believe that you all four believe these lies.” “You’ll still be on the payroll , don’t worry , ” Cole said .
“Is that right ? ” another commissioner asked .
The county attorney spoke up .
“Yes , that’s policy during an investigation.” Pissed , Ed replied , “You’re doing this to punish me .
I didn’t lay a finger on her except to help her off the ground and cuff her .
Where is she ?
I should be able to face my accuser.” Cole replied , “She doesn’t feel safe around you.” “Around me ?
There are six other people in this room besides me .
That’s insane.” “It’s a safety issue , sorry , ” Cole said .
Ed turned to the county attorney .
“I know I have the right to face her , I know it ! ” “I’ll look into it , ” the county attorney replied .
“Something here doesn’t seem right.” Cole looked to his left and to his right .
“Let’s put this to a vote.” The county clerk then stated , “All in favor of suspending the sheriff with pay during the investigation raise your hand.” The only hand to raise was Cole’s to his surprise .
The other four commissioners kept their hands down and waited for the count .
“One for , three against , ” the county clerk stated .
“Motion denied.” Ed smiled and leaned back in his chair .
“Fuck yeah , ” Ed said .
“This is an official meeting , please use proper language , ” the county clerk stated .
Cole shook his head and pushed the paper across his desk towards the county clerk .
“I still want this in the record.” “It already is , ” the clerk replied .
“If that’s all , I’m leaving , ” Ed said and stood up from the table .
“You can conduct your witch hunt without me.” “You’re still under investigation , I will have someone interviewing you soon so don’t get too comfortable , ” Cole said .
“I gave you my side of the story , there’s nothing else to say.” “I want it official , not something you said at a commissioners meeting.” “Fine , do what you want , the answer’s the same , ” Ed said .
“And I do have some advice for you commissioner , you might want to keep your wife in check .
I began to clear the weeds and the ivy from around the tires again , burrs sticking to my gloves and skin .
As one set of was cleared , I moved to the next set , pulling at weeds and ivy , clearing the deflating tires , then pushing the culm back into place before I threw the weeds into a pile under a creaking maple .
I didn’t realize that I’d been sweating or that hours had passed or that the sky was now dark with heavy clouds .
I shivered in the wind , picked up my book , and leaned against the rear gate of the trailer .
I don’t want to go home , Fred , I whispered .
I don’t want to go home .
I don’t want to go home .
II .
The Darkest Night Mom was like the coal underground : quiet , solid , dark .
Years of pressure will do that—take something organic , something that once was alive and press it , mold it , and solidify it .
She was born in a house in the city of Scranton in view of the Pocono Mountains and had lived in the nearby Wyoming Valley ever since .
She was part of the last generation of mining families .
Her father had died from black lung , her mother had died from liver failure , and her last vacation was to a small honeymooners ' hotel in the Poconos after she’d married my father .
She’d worked at the ammunition factory in Scranton , the party favor factory in Duryea , the mattress factory in Old Forge , all of which had either closed or downsized until she found herself at home all the time with a daughter , a small house , and an ever-darkening husband .
I’d seen pictures of Mom and Dad in the photo albums : wedding photos , birthday photos , night-out-on-the-town photos .
At the beginning of their marriage , the photos cluttered every page , but quickly tapered off until the photo album’s last three pages remained empty .
Looking through the photographs was like thumbing through a cartoon flip book—a man becoming more stone-faced , a woman becoming more stone .
She’d once had short brown hair—the same color as mine—but it became mostly gray in less than twelve years .
She’d once had smooth , fine skin , but it eventually turned a bloodless white-gray .
When Mom showed me the old pictures , she’d point at herself , remark how young she used to look not long ago , then say That’s what life does to you , Sweetheart .
But I didn’t believe her .
Not every life does that to you .
Just a life with Dad .
She’d said how he was once romantic , how well he used to dance , how he funny he was , his jokes leaving her in laughter for hours , but it only made me think of a cat that once lived in the forest behind our house .
It was sleek and gray , with golden eyes and a soft purr .
I used to feed it scraps from the kitchen , leave it bowls of water , and the cat would purr and let me pet it Until the day it didn’t , when it swiped at me with both front claws then ran into the underbrush where it disappeared forever .
Things hide their nature until they don’t have to anymore .
Mom never said when Dad changed his .
Maybe there was no single event , no single act that signaled things had changed .
Maybe it happened when he had to take a new job towing cars in Scranton .
Maybe it happened when he moved us into a house that needed more repairs than he thought .
I never saw the change .
It happened before I came into their life , which made me realize what the change was : me .
Mom never said so .
She never would .
Sometimes I’d see his form through the blankets thrown over my head or through the curtains as he walked through the backyard .
Sometimes even when he sat at the kitchen table , where we all ate quietly , he was a darkness that seemed to shift shape in the daylight , his brown eyes glaring at me when I dropped my fork too loudly , his jaw tightening when Mom asked me what we were doing at school that week .
After a while , I stopped looking at his face and only watched his shadow .
The nights would be quiet for days , with only the sound of the television piercing the silence .
And then , behind their bedroom door , I’d hear the strange calmness in his voice , an even tone that would only rise slightly in volume , and I’d hear the slow response of her voice , a soft questioning that became a rapid spill of words that would end with a sharp snap of skin against skin or a loud thud against the wall .
And I’d slide under the bed and seal myself in with clothes and pillows , or I’d crawl into the corner of my closet , slide the door quietly , push my hands to my ears , and wait for Mom’s cries to trail off into the silence of the night .
Every night I hid .
Every night I’d stare out at the stars and think of my dream island with just two houses .
A house for me .
And a house for Mom .
*** By the time I arrived home , the kitchen was filled with steam from the sink and the stove .
Mom moved along the countertop , slowly pouring green beans into a glass bowl and setting it aside .
She checked the red potatoes boiling on the stove , stabbing at them with a fork to make sure they weren’t too soft or too hard , the texture that Dad liked .
She then moved to the sink and rinsed a bowl , looking out the fogged window at the darkening evening , then looked back at me .
Could you set the table , Jane ?
she asked , hair pulled slightly over her right eyebrow , which looked purplish and swollen .
Her voice was quiet and ragged , her movements regular and robotic as if on an assembly line .
I stood in the doorway for a moment , still swaddled in my coat and hat and gloves , and watched her move automatically through the kitchen .
I wondered if she was thinking about the snow and the sun falling outside or about the days before I’d entered her life , the days when she could do anything , go anywhere .
Maybe a new job .
Maybe somewhere out west .
California .
Texas .
Places where the land stretched into forever .
I set the table the way he wanted , used the plates he wanted , the utensils he preferred , the paper toweling instead of the flimsy napkins , and Mom placed the bowls and plates on the table and sent me to my room to hang up my coat .
When I walked through the living room , I opened the curtains to see the neighbors’ house across the street .
They’d strung Christmas lights around the window frames , and the lights twinkled and illuminated the snowflakes that fell upon the windowsills , spattering their front yard with splotches of red , yellow , blue , and green .
*** When we finished dinner , Mom and I cleared the table and cleaned the kitchen while Dad sat in the living room watching the news , saying something about the weather and people being too dumb to know how to place chains on their tires properly .
Mom sat in the living room and looked out the window at the neighbors’ Christmas lights and said quietly how pretty they looked .
Dad said nothing , his face locked on the television screen .
As I walked to my bedroom , he stood up , walked to the window , and closed the curtains .
*** Sometimes even the best hiding places can’t stop the sounds in the darkest of nights .
Even though I closed the closet door behind me and pushed myself into the farthest corner when I heard the first slap and threw a heavy comforter over my body and a pillow over my face and my hands over my ears , I could still hear her scream and feel the hard thumps , the vibrations rippling through the wall beams and the sheet rock .
I could still hear his voice , so strangely calm but deep , his footsteps steady and heavy .
I heard her ask him to stop , but he didn’t for twenty minutes , pausing for periods to ask in his monotone , You going to keep asking me about money ?
Are you ?
You going to keep asking me about money ?
I didn’t sleep that night .
I waited until sunlight peeked under the closet door , until the sounds of the front door opening and closing and the sounds of Dad’s car starting and pulling out of the driveway and down the street before I slid open the closet door and left my room .
The house was quiet except for the drip of snow melting off the roof .
I walked to my parents’ bedroom door and opened it .
Mom sat on the bedside in darkness , facing away .
Mom ?
I asked .
I’m not feeling well , Honey , she blurted , her mouth sounding like it had been stuffed with cotton , not looking at me , shooing me away with a hand .
Can you make yourself something to eat ?
she asked .
I’ll be in bed for a while .
I nodded .
Okay , Mom , I said , closing the door quietly then backing away .
I stood in the hallway and listened to Mom crying , her breaths heaving quietly through the door .
*** The sun was brilliant white , and it reflected off the snow that covered the culm .
My boots crunched into the snow and the culm , creating a gray , slushy mix under my feet as I walked in the cold air , clouds seeping from my mouth and nostrils .
There was a slight breeze that chilled the air even more and made the cold tears on my face even colder .
I wiped my face with my bare hands and closed my eyes to the blinding white all around me .
Ahead lay the red semi-trailer , its roof covered in snow , its tires sunk into meringue-like snow drifts .
Behind me lay a mile of snow-covered culm which ended in a gray treeline that hid my home from view .
The rusting red metal seeped through the spaces between the trees like blood through skin , and when I entered the clearing and walked up to Fred , I leaned against its rear doors and cried .
I told Fred about the previous night , the screams and the slaps and the pounding on the walls .
I told it how the closet space didn’t hide me well enough anymore , how I stayed awake the whole night under a blanket like a ghost , and how Mom stayed in the bedroom probably wondering how she would cover up the marks this time or how she could say the right thing when he got home so he wouldn’t do it again .
And then I slid to the ground , my buttocks planted in cold snow , my face between my knees .
The big firms paid well , but there the developer would end up as a member in a team of a thousand .
This is where a one-room enterprise like Om stood apart .
At Om , the developer was on live projects from day one .
The programmer got an opportunity to learn everything from requirement gathering , analysis , system design to actual development , unit testing and deployment .
Direct interaction with the client was another part of the learning experience .
The application developed at an organization like Om would be nowhere near , what the software majors put out in terms of code quality or levels of testing , but for the developer the experience gained , would be complete .
It covered the entire scope of the software development process .
His tenure at Om had come to an abrupt end as one fine morning the owner suddenly decided to close shop .
The owner had decided to move into the textile business , which he found to be more profitable than software development !
V.N.K had been furious when he had heard of Om closing down .
He had wanted to come to Hari’s office and beat up the owner !
Hari smiled as he remembered all this .
His parents , they seemed so far away now .
It was just two days back that he had caught the train from Devipuram and come to Mumbai .
Indigo Software , was a multi-national software services provider with offices in all corners of the globe .
This job opening was for its office in Mumbai .
They required a Dotnet developer for a project , which was to start in a month’s time .
They wanted a minimum of a year’s experience , and that , was exactly what Hari had .
Sitting in their Mumbai office , Hari looked around him .
The hall was huge ; on one side , it had a glass wall , which had the entrance door .
There were plush sofas for visitors on two sides , the receptionist sat behind a desk , which covered part of one wall .
Next to her desk was the entrance to the main office .
Hari smiled as he remembered how small the office at OM was .
The entire office could easily fit inside this reception area .
The receptionist looked up and saw Hari smiling .
She thought he was smiling at her .
One look at his frayed shirt collars and cheap trousers and she had sized him up .
She was not looking at spending the rest of her life at the reception desk .
She wanted to go ahead in life and knew that it was certainly not going to be with someone like this young man sitting in front of her , smiling from ear to ear .
She looked at him and frowned .
‘Oh , she thinks I was smiling at her , ’ he thought and looked away immediately .
The door of the cabin opened and the previous candidate stepped out .
He went up to the receptionist , took out his plastic visitor-tag , handed it and whispered something .
She smiled back at him .
The buzzer on the reception table interrupted their conversation .
She looked at a piece of paper lying on her desk and called out , “Mr .
Hari Kumar” , she said and returned to her conversation with the other candidate .
Hari , jumped up , upsetting the folder in his lap , bent down picked it up and went towards her desk .
“ Should I go in now ? ” Hari asked .
“Why else would I call you ? ” she said , looked at the other candidate still standing at her desk and they both laughed .
“Thanks , ” Hari replied .
He was too tense to note the sarcasm in her tone and made his way to the cabin .
“Please may I come in Sir ? ” Hari asked at the door .
“ Yes , please , and please keep the door open , the smell of perfume from the previous candidate is too strong in here .
I can hardly breathe , ” said one of the interview panelists .
The two other men on the panel laughed .
They were sitting behind a desk and facing them was a single chair for the candidate .
Hari reached for the certificates in his folder as soon as he sat down .
“No.. no… we don’t need your certificates right now , ” the person in the middle said .
“We will first ask you a few questions , and then we will decide what to do with your certificates .
Are you ready for your technical interview ? ” “Yes , Sir” , Hari replied .
“Can you tell us what is the difference between public , static and void ? ” one of the panelist asked .
Hari smiled , the opener was easy .
The questions came one after the other .
“Can multiple catch blocks be executed ? ” “What is an object ?
“ “What are Custom Control and User Control ?
“ “What is the difference between value types and reference types ?
“ “What is an interface class ? ” Half an hour later , Hari got up to leave .
“Wait outside , ” the man in the middle said .
“Ok Sir , ” Hari said , “You do not need to call me Sir , my name is Gopalakrishnan .
You can call me Gopi” he said and smiled at Hari .
The receptionist did not look up from her work , but held out her hand .
Hari ignored her and went towards the sofas .
“You can go now , ” she said .
“But I was asked to stay , ” Hari said .
“Who said that ? ” she asked .
“Mr .
Gopalakrishnan - in the cabin said that , ” Hari said .
“Let me check , ” she replied sounding unconvinced .
She called up someone on the intercom , listened for a few seconds , and put the phone down .
With an incredulous look on her face she said , “You have to wait .
There will be a HR round next .
If you clear that you are selected.” Chapter Two It had been a month since his appointment at indigo Soft .
The HR round had been a formality .
The technical rounds were the deciders and in those , Hari had scored well .
Of the fifty people who had turned up for the interview , only five had cleared .
The interview was on a Friday and he was told he could join on the following Monday .
“Welcome to Indigo” , the lady from HR had said , “you will get your joining letter on Monday once you come in .
Office hours are from nine to five” “Thanks” , Hari said .
Hari was stunned .
He had not expected to get through on his first attempt and had booked his return tickets as well .
He had reached on a Friday , the interview was the next day , and the return ticket had been booked for Sunday .
“I don’t have a place to stay here , ” Hari said to the lady from HR .
“ Well , that can be a problem , in Mumbai , “ she said .
“By the way where are you staying at present ? ” “ At the dormitory in the railway station .
I have a return ticket for Sunday” .
She stated laughing .
“Why , weren’t you expecting to get through in the interviews ? ” she asked .
“I have never given an interview in a big company before , and was not sure what to expect” .
“Well the company does provides temporary guest room facilities .
We do have a number of employees who come from other states and need temporary accommodations .
Your problem is that this facility would be available to you for two weeks only .
By then you would have to find some other accommodation .
By the way , my name is Shipra Rai , and I lead the HR team in this office .
We handle onboarding of new employees.” As Hari was leaving the building , the receptionist got up , looked at him , smiled and said , ” Welcome to Indigo , Sir , ” ‘I may be from a village , but I am no fool , ’ thought Hari , smirked and went out .
As he stepped out of the building , he realized that he would have to change his plans , now that he had the job .
First , he had to go to the railway station to cancel the return ticket , next he had to get his luggage out of the locker , then take a rickshaw and go to the company lodge and finally get a room there .
First off , though he had to call up his father and give him the good news .
“You got the job ? ” his father asked .
“Yes appa , I have to join on Monday” , Hari said , “The starting salary is twenty five thousand rupees per month” .
I was not what I had been .
I held out my hand and looked it over real good , turning it this way and that .
Long , skeletal fingers , the skin stretched tight around the bone .
That same bluish tint and a deeper nastiness .
A rot .
I could see the veins underneath the skin , blotched black and weepy map lines spreading in the damp .
I staggered to my feet .
The street like a postcard still .
Not even a breeze .
Then , just on the other side , the cat broke cover .
It lurched on top of an exposed culvert and looked my way .
One side of its head had been caved in by God knows what .
Leaving a single , bloody eye to pan over me as I watched .
Likewise , its left forepaw was mangled and ground down and as it jumped from the culvert , what was left of the leg gave way and the cat pitched into the street like a flung towel and just wallowed there , mindless , silent , flapping around .
Just like me , I realized .
But seeing it there , slowly turning in a bloody circle , made the bone in my throat thrum just a hair .
And suddenly I found myself hunched over and then down on all fours , scrabbling across the concrete , my pinky now pointing back the way I’d come .
I had it up and in my mouth before I could even think straight .
My head was a maze of stars shooting off galaxies and all these pretty colors blooming and dancing before my eyes .
I could feel my jaw chewing , could feel the bone in my throat easing up ever so wonderfully as I fought past the fur .
And I swallowed .
And screamed .
Threw down the corpse and crabbed away from it trying to scream again as the bone lodged back .
And then I got up and ran , just ran again as far and as fast as I could go .
That’s most of three weeks now .
And I know a lot more than I did then .
But it’s taken some getting used to , if that’s what you can call it .
Realize I was always a ne’er-do-well .
Shiftless , sponging off my mother , eating junk food and concerned with nothing except what was on TV tonight .
No moral compass , so to speak .
I did like horror movies , vampires , werewolves , the whole shebang .
I saw all that zombie shit , from the fleet-of-foots to the shambling goons , but it’s nothing like that .
How we got it , yeah , that’s straight outta George Romero but everything else…no relation .
Anyway , the reason I bring it up , the kinda person I was , is because I was a fringe-dweller .
You couldn’t get much farther outside the mainstream as I was .
But now I am the mainstream .
This shit hit everyone .
Babies all the way up to blue-haired old ladies , and let me tell you , the latter are quite a treat these days .
We all go around pretending at our old lives .
The post office , a trip to the grocery store .
But now it’s like some B-movie version of Zombie Andy Griffith .
Everybody still lives in their houses , if they want to , the mail still runs .
But everything’s different , repulsive , terrible .
And speaking of the mail : the Fed Ex guy fell out of his truck yesterday , scrabbled around in the street for a while , and delivered an eviscerated dog to my front door .
I was standing just inside watching .
I’d managed to trick Momma outside to the garage with a beef steak a couple days ago and I still hear her shambling around in there time to time , breaking shit up , screaming .
But I’m in the house , looking out , trying not think about her .
The stumbling , bumbling Fed Ex shit collapsed a few times getting back to his truck , got pissed on by a dog and lost a finger in the process , but he did get back inside the truck and floored it down the street .
Taking out mailboxes , Mrs. Vichie from down the street .
But she wasn’t down long .
While I was still standing there at the window I watched her slink away to the ditch like something that had been stepped on , disappearing into the blackness like a swamp rat .
I took the car but came back at the first intersection .
The power hasn’t been working and nobody’s got any fucking sense left .
Fucking wrecks everywhere , and you know it , where there’s wrecks there’s blood and of course that sets em off .
One spash of blood and it’s like Vulture Nation .
Fucking cops gnawing on legs at car wrecks .
Really crazy shit , something I never even entertained as possible before .
Now , it’s everyday .
People dragging heads around like dogs , slopping down intestines .
All the violence and stumbling accidents , busted limbs .
And all the while the sun goes up and comes down , goes up and comes down .
Sometimes you hear some hot rod zooming by a couple of streets over .
Kids laughing digging through the days-old carcass of something someone forgot .
Things ain’t right .
And I’m still a fringe-dweller , even here in this Special Hell .
Because I’ve still got that damn bone stuck in my throat .
Here’s why .
I don’t have to .
I could feed anytime I want .
Nobody seems to mind .
You can walk right up to someone these days and take a huge chunk out of his arm and it’s like nothing .
You just stop for a minute , fill up , and then you’re on your way .
Maybe he’s nibbling your ear off in the process .
I’ve seen it .
It’s like a couple stopping to watch flowers grow .
Just another way to pass the time .
But not me .
I can’t do it .
I still have the compulsions .
I can’t walk past some wet puddle of rot without salivating like a dog , but I try to turn my head .
God I try .
Because when I do give in , when I finally say ‘what the hell , let’s get this party started’ , it’s like all bursting colors and sweet dreams .
But I can’t do it .
Not anymore .
I’m ready for this holiday to end .
But what do you do when you’re the Living Dead ?
It’s not make-up and blood packets .
It’s real .
And it just goes on and on .
Everyday I stumble out of this closet , upstairs in my bedroom , along with all the rest who’ve shown up during the night , and I shuffle around in the morning dawn and try to think of how it was .
How I used to sleep regular right there in this bed and here I am now , pouring out of this closet like the Stink of a Million Years .
What’s to say ?
Nobody talks .
Just a lotta head-bobbing and sweating blood , dripping bodies headed outside for another round .
I wander around in the bedroom with my wall-eyes until they’re all gone and then I go and pound my fists through the walls for a while .
But I know it will just go on and on .
And…and here’s the thing that really shakes me , even while crammed in here among the monsters in my closet .
This… what the hell if it did end ?
What if I did wake up one morning , or have the same blinding headache again , and find the world back to Normal ?
What the fuck then ?
This spirit of perverseness , I say , came to my final overthrow .
It was this unfathomable longing of the soul to vex itself -- to offer violence to its own nature -- to do wrong for the wrong 's sake only -- that urged me to continue and finally to consummate the injury I had inflicted upon the unoffending brute .
On the night of the day on which this cruel deed was done , I was aroused from sleep by the cry of fire .
The curtains of my bed were in flames .
The whole house was blazing .
It was with great difficulty that my wife , a servant , and myself , made our escape from the conflagration .
The destruction was complete .
My entire worldly wealth was swallowed up , and I resigned myself thenceforward to despair .
I am above the weakness of seeking to establish a sequence of cause and effect , between the disaster and the atrocity .
But I am detailing a chain of facts -- and wish not to leave even a possible link imperfect .
On the day succeeding the fire , I visited the ruins .
The walls , with one exception , had fallen in .
This exception was found in a compartment wall , not very thick , which stood about the middle of the house , and against which had rested the head of my bed .
The plastering had here , in great measure , resisted the action of the fire -- a fact which I attributed to its having been recently spread .
About this wall a dense crowd were collected , and many persons seemed to be examining a particular portion of it with very minute and eager attention .
The words `` strange ! ''
`` singular ! ''
and other similar expressions , excited my curiosity .
I approached and saw , as if graven in bas relief upon the white surface , the figure of a gigantic cat .
The impression was given with an accuracy truly marvellous .
There was a rope about the animal 's neck .
When I first beheld this apparition -- for I could scarcely regard it as less -- my wonder and my terror were extreme .
But at length reflection came to my aid .
The cat , I remembered , had been hung in a garden adjacent to the house .
Upon the alarm of fire , this garden had been immediately filled by the crowd -- by some one of whom the animal must have been cut from the tree and thrown , through an open window , into my chamber .
This had probably been done with the view of arousing me from sleep .
The falling of other walls had compressed the victim of my cruelty into the substance of the freshly-spread plaster ; the lime of which , with the flames , and the ammonia from the carcass , had then accomplished the portraiture as I saw it .
Although I thus readily accounted to my reason , if not altogether to my conscience , for the startling fact just detailed , it did not the less fail to make a deep impression upon my fancy .
For months I could not rid myself of the phantasm of the cat ; and , during this period , there came back into my spirit a half-sentiment that seemed , but was not , remorse .
I went so far as to regret the loss of the animal , and to look about me , among the vile haunts which I now habitually frequented , for another pet of the same species , and of somewhat similar appearance , with which to supply its place .
One night as I sat , half stupified , in a den of more than infamy , my attention was suddenly drawn to some black object , reposing upon the head of one of the immense hogsheads of Gin , or of Rum , which constituted the chief furniture of the apartment .
I had been looking steadily at the top of this hogshead for some minutes , and what now caused me surprise was the fact that I had not sooner perceived the object thereupon .
I approached it , and touched it with my hand .
It was a black cat -- a very large one -- fully as large as Pluto , and closely resembling him in every respect but one .
Pluto had not a white hair upon any portion of his body ; but this cat had a large , although indefinite splotch of white , covering nearly the whole region of the breast .
Upon my touching him , he immediately arose , purred loudly , rubbed against my hand , and appeared delighted with my notice .
This , then , was the very creature of which I was in search .
I at once offered to purchase it of the landlord ; but this person made no claim to it -- knew nothing of it -- had never seen it before .
I continued my caresses , and , when I prepared to go home , the animal evinced a disposition to accompany me .
I permitted it to do so ; occasionally stooping and patting it as I proceeded .
When it reached the house it domesticated itself at once , and became immediately a great favorite with my wife .
For my own part , I soon found a dislike to it arising within me .
This was just the reverse of what I had anticipated ; but -- I know not how or why it was -- its evident fondness for myself rather disgusted and annoyed .
By slow degrees , these feelings of disgust and annoyance rose into the bitterness of hatred .
I avoided the creature ; a certain sense of shame , and the remembrance of my former deed of cruelty , preventing me from physically abusing it .
I did not , for some weeks , strike , or otherwise violently ill use it ; but gradually -- very gradually -- I came to look upon it with unutterable loathing , and to flee silently from its odious presence , as from the breath of a pestilence .
What added , no doubt , to my hatred of the beast , was the discovery , on the morning after I brought it home , that , like Pluto , it also had been deprived of one of its eyes .
This circumstance , however , only endeared it to my wife , who , as I have already said , possessed , in a high degree , that humanity of feeling which had once been my distinguishing trait , and the source of many of my simplest and purest pleasures .
With my aversion to this cat , however , its partiality for myself seemed to increase .
It followed my footsteps with a pertinacity which it would be difficult to make the reader comprehend .
Whenever I sat , it would crouch beneath my chair , or spring upon my knees , covering me with its loathsome caresses .
If I arose to walk it would get between my feet and thus nearly throw me down , or , fastening its long and sharp claws in my dress , clamber , in this manner , to my breast .
At such times , although I longed to destroy it with a blow , I was yet withheld from so doing , partly by a memory of my former crime , but chiefly -- let me confess it at once -- by absolute dread of the beast .
This dread was not exactly a dread of physical evil -- and yet I should be at a loss how otherwise to define it .
I am almost ashamed to own -- yes , even in this felon 's cell , I am almost ashamed to own -- that the terror and horror with which the animal inspired me , had been heightened by one of the merest chimaeras it would be possible to conceive .
My wife had called my attention , more than once , to the character of the mark of white hair , of which I have spoken , and which constituted the sole visible difference between the strange beast and the one I had destroyed .
The reader will remember that this mark , although large , had been originally very indefinite ; but , by slow degrees -- degrees nearly imperceptible , and which for a long time my Reason struggled to reject as fanciful -- it had , at length , assumed a rigorous distinctness of outline .
And now was I indeed wretched beyond the wretchedness of mere Humanity .
And a brute beast -- whose fellow I had contemptuously destroyed—a brute beast to work out for me -- for me a man , fashioned in the image of the High God -- so much of insufferable wo !
Alas !
neither by day nor by night knew I the blessing of Rest any more !
During the former the creature left me no moment alone ; and , in the latter , I started , hourly , from dreams of unutterable fear , to find the hot breath of the thing upon my face , and its vast weight -- an incarnate Night-Mare that I had no power to shake off -- incumbent eternally upon my heart !
Beneath the pressure of torments such as these , the feeble remnant of the good within me succumbed .
Evil thoughts became my sole intimates -- the darkest and most evil of thoughts .
The moodiness of my usual temper increased to hatred of all things and of all mankind ; while , from the sudden , frequent , and ungovernable outbursts of a fury to which I now blindly abandoned myself , my uncomplaining wife , alas !
was the most usual and the most patient of sufferers .
One day she accompanied me , upon some household errand , into the cellar of the old building which our poverty compelled us to inhabit .
The cat followed me down the steep stairs , and , nearly throwing me headlong , exasperated me to madness .
Uplifting an axe , and forgetting , in my wrath , the childish dread which had hitherto stayed my hand , I aimed a blow at the animal which , of course , would have proved instantly fatal had it descended as I wished .
But this blow was arrested by the hand of my wife .
Goaded , by the interference , into a rage more than demoniacal , I withdrew my arm from her grasp and buried the axe in her brain .
She fell dead upon the spot , without a groan .
This hideous murder accomplished , I set myself forthwith , and with entire deliberation , to the task of concealing the body .
I knew that I could not remove it from the house , either by day or by night , without the risk of being observed by the neighbors .
Many projects entered my mind .
At one period I thought of cutting the corpse into minute fragments , and destroying them by fire .
At another , I resolved to dig a grave for it in the floor of the cellar .
Again , I deliberated about casting it in the well in the yard -- about packing it in a box , as if merchandize , with the usual arrangements , and so getting a porter to take it from the house .
Finally I hit upon what I considered a far better expedient than either of these .
I determined to wall it up in the cellar -- as the monks of the middle ages are recorded to have walled up their victims .
For a purpose such as this the cellar was well adapted .
Its walls were loosely constructed , and had lately been plastered throughout with a rough plaster , which the dampness of the atmosphere had prevented from hardening .
Moreover , in one of the walls was a projection , caused by a false chimney , or fireplace , that had been filled up , and made to resemble the red of the cellar .
I made no doubt that I could readily displace the bricks at this point , insert the corpse , and wall the whole up as before , so that no eye could detect any thing suspicious .
And in this calculation I was not deceived .
By means of a crow-bar I easily dislodged the bricks , and , having carefully deposited the body against the inner wall , I propped it in that position , while , with little trouble , I re-laid the whole structure as it originally stood .
Having procured mortar , sand , and hair , with every possible precaution , I prepared a plaster which could not be distinguished from the old , and with this I very carefully went over the new brickwork .
When I had finished , I felt satisfied that all was right .
The wall did not present the slightest appearance of having been disturbed .
The rubbish on the floor was picked up with the minutest care .
I looked around triumphantly , and said to myself -- '' Here at least , then , my labor has not been in vain . ''
My next step was to look for the beast which had been the cause of so much wretchedness ; for I had , at length , firmly resolved to put it to death .
Had I been able to meet with it , at the moment , there could have been no doubt of its fate ; but it appeared that the crafty animal had been alarmed at the violence of my previous anger , and forebore to present itself in my present mood .
It is impossible to describe , or to imagine , the deep , the blissful sense of relief which the absence of the detested creature occasioned in my bosom .
It did not make its appearance during the night -- and thus for one night at least , since its introduction into the house , I soundly and tranquilly slept ; aye , slept even with the burden of murder upon my soul !
The second and the third day passed , and still my tormentor came not .
Once again I breathed as a freeman .
The monster , in terror , had fled the premises forever !
He wanted to try an experiment .
He wanted to talk to the other person in his head for the hell of it .
A few words as a test .
“Say something , ” said Devon .
“You 've been watching me .
Say why you 're here.” Silence .
He felt stupid for talking to no one .
He was twelve years old .
When you were twelve you did n't talk to imaginary friends .
But this one felt different .
This one felt more real .
It was like the difference between looking at the girls in the Victoria 's Secret catalog and being right up close next to one , being able to smell her .
That was what he thought .
He 'd tried to make that happen before ( the girl thing ) , closing his eyes and wishing that the lingerie model were right there in her underwear .
No dice , though .
“I guess you do n't want to talk to me , ” he said .
“That 's okay .
Kids at school do n't talk to me either .
I just wish you 'd say something so I knew why you were in my head.” A pause ... then a reply .
“I 'm here for you , Devon.” The voice was clear .
Loud and crisp .
It was a man 's voice , but it was gentle .
Like the voice that a friendly cartoon animal might have , so maybe a little high in pitch .
Devon looked around the room .
It sounded like the voice was right in the room with him .
“I 'm in your head , Devon .
I came when the rock broke your skull .
I hope you do n't mind , but you looked like you needed the company .
I was here when your brain was swelling and the doctors thought you 'd end up a vegetable .
Your mom was so worried for you .
She screamed and cried and hit the doctor who told her you might never wake up , and when the doctor said she should consider turning off the ventilator because she would n't be able to pay the medical bills and you were too far gone ( the signs you would wake up were n't there , kiddo ) , she told him to fuck himself .
Your mom did that for you .
She looks out for you , Devon .
That 's love .
Be good to her.” “How did you see all that ? ” “I 'm special , Devon .
I 'm special like you .
Together we 're special too.” Devon felt the gooseflesh raise on his arms .
His muscles froze .
Did people who were about to die from a brain aneurysm hear voices ?
Sometimes the drunks in Portland talked to people who were n't there .
They walked around shouting and staggering and making crazy eyes and sometimes their eyes were red and clear at the same time .
Were they talking to imaginary people too ?
Was he as crazy as they were ?
“I know how you feel , Devon .
It 's okay .
I was waiting for you to feel better before saying anything .
I can go be quiet for a while if that makes you feel better.” Devon felt tired .
It was a bone-heavy fatigue that hit him like a ton of bricks dropped off a three-story building .
His eyelids were heavy .
“Need to sleep , take a nap , ” he said .
He put his head down on a couch pillow and closed his eyes .
Before sleep washed over him , he hoped that the voice would be gone when he woke up .
It was n't .
**** Claire was working at the MegaMart The flickering lights and the chemical air-freshener smell in the store got to her .
They made her head pound .
She checked her watch .
She had fifteen minutes to rest , from 11:00 to 11:15 .
She went to the break room in the back of the store through the door with 'Employees Only ' written above it in crooked black letters .
She was going to eat her lunch , which was the usual : a bag of chips from the vending machine and a diet cola .
That was n't healthy and she knew it , but it cost her $ 1.69 for the chips , a bag of plain Lays , and the soda was 99 cents .
The management wanted to keep caffeine cheap , that 's what she figured .
They were slimy that way .
Still , even if the food did n't qualify as nutrition , it was good enough to put a dent in her hunger .
She did n't know how much longer she could keep going like this .
She knew that after she got home later , she 'd have two hours to get dinner ready for Devon , take a shower , throw some food down her throat , and get back out the door for her cleaning job .
A measly two hours .
Life is hard but it 's hard for everyone .
So why complain ?
It is what it is .
She worked for a maid company and cleaned businesses after they closed .
She liked the commercial jobs better .
She 'd never been accused of stealing while cleaning office buildings .
But people were different about their houses – if they misplaced something , the maid was the first person who came to mind : Who would steal from me ?
'The maid would . '
She does n't make much money .
'She has motive . '
She looks pale and thin .
Maybe she 's on drugs .
'The maid ca n't be trusted .
We should look into her .
Report her to the agency . '
Of course Claire had never stolen anything while she was a maid doing the residential jobs .
The temptation was there , it sure as hell was .
How could she not see the wealth that got pissed all over town ?
Especially when she cleaned rich folk 's houses , the ones with the manicured lawns and water views and golf courses just outside their windows .
Those were the ones were they had fancy cars parked out front and expensive silver and china neatly arranged in cabinets , designer clothes to put in the wash , stainless steel appliances from all the brand names , the kinds of brands that you 'd never find at a MegaMart .
Then there were the jewelry boxes .
She 'd looked inside one once , only once , just because she wanted to know what a privileged woman might keep inside .
It was like a stanza from the mournful ballad of the maid .
She 'd seen silver and gold , gems and and diamonds , all arranged into neat little boxes .
So many choices for the privileged .
Was it what I 'd expected ?
She 'd picked up the box and it felt hot in her hands .
That single box could have paid off her mortgage .
She 'd put it back down and dusted around it , making it clean and nice and perfect for the woman who lived in that house .
It was n't fair .
But what was ?
Not this life .
She 'd known her residential cleaning clients by the pictures they kept on the walls .
She saw perfect families , wedding photos where people were young and smiling , then pictures of the kids .
I 've seen the way he acts with the young girls .
I would n't trust him around little Sun if I were you .
No , a boy that age is trouble waiting to happen . ''
Leanne retrieved a can whose label had disintegrated a century ago .
Inside was some starchy vegetable she had never seen before .
`` It 's our anniversary , '' said Leanne , knowing Sarah would ask about the can .
These ancient foods were so hard to come by and there were only a handful left in the communal stores .
After tasting a little , Leanne decided to dice and fry these in a pan with soycorn oil .
She pulled another container from the bag .
`` Old Bay spice ? ''
Hostess Sarah raised a suspicious eyebrow .
`` I thought the last of the Old Bay was used up calendars ago . ''
`` It was a gift from one of Ben 's city friends .
I 've been saving it . ''
`` You two have a lot of things you keep to yourselves .
You had better hope the chamber does n't catch word . ''
Leanne sighed .
Hostess Sarah ran the chamber , along with Ben and some of the older members of the community .
It was her family 's seat , but Leanne had asked her man to take it , Ben having more patience for the bickering that went on there .
Leanne preferred her fields .
`` I 'm making it for the boy too . ''
She added the spice to the vegetable .
`` He said they still eat the Old Bay in the Wilds .
I thought it might make him happy , before he has to go . ''
`` So Ben will be taking the boy to the city after all , '' the Hostess said , satisfied with herself for guessing right .
`` He has n't harmed Sun has he ?
I knew that boy was trouble , Leanne if he has done any wrong to you or your family , you know the chamber will see to it he is punished . ''
`` It 's just not working out , '' Leanne said , `` nothing wrong . ''
`` If you say so .
Still I would n't waste canned food on a boy like that .
You could sell just a few of those things instead of your and Ben 's entire stores . ''
`` It 's still our anniversary and we 've all been working hard , even little Sun works in the field .
I thought Ben deserved something nice .
Without the boy , I do n't know if we can keep the crops from molding .
But like you say , he has to go . ''
Leanne stirred the pot with the soycorn meal then spooned the porridge and vegetables into separate containers .
Hostess Sarah huffed like she wanted to say something else , but did n't .
Maybe she felt sorry for Leanne .
Between bad farmhands , and overactive irrigators , the family was lucky that half of their crop had survived .
`` Good luck washing your son Hostess Sarah . ''
Leanne put the containers into her bag and quickly rinsed the pot and pan , hanging them on their hooks to dry .
`` Give Hostman Ben my best Leanne . ''
Sarah pulled up a stool to watch her water boil .
`` Tell him I agree , the boy needs to go .
Ben has a good heart but nothing but trouble ever came from his taking in strays .
If he tries to change his mind , you tell him Hostess Sarah is on your side . ''
`` Thank you Hostess , I will , '' Leanne lied , hurrying out the door .
She tried to shake off her irritation on the walk back to their hut .
It was difficult enough sending the boy off without it becoming gossip .
She stubbed her toe on the dark staircase .
`` Hull damn you Ben , always walking about barefoot and why ca n't we hire workers who know what they 're doing , always taking in troubled boys , we have a daughter of our own to raise . ''
She cursed up the stairs to the farming pod and grabbed a pair of sandals from inside the pod door , stomping through the damp field to their little hut .
Outside , she paused and closed her eyes , breathing deeply until she had regained her composure .
She pushed the conversation out of her mind and cooled her nerves .
She ducked inside and stepped quietly over to Ben .
Sitting lightly on the edge of the bed , she whispered in his ear .
`` Good Morning , shh .
Sun is sleeping .
I made food for your trip this morning . ''
A voice from the other side of the hut startled her .
`` Do you want me to gather the dried soycorn ? ''
The boy was sitting on his blanket in the corner , fully dressed like he had been awake for some time .
`` Dis , '' she choked , nerves still shaken from talking to Hostess Sarah .
She wanted him to leave the hut .
`` Go and fill four sacks .
Wait there for Ben okay . ''
He got up and ran out of the room , eager to get working .
When he was gone , Leanne spoke to Ben again , this time jabbing him in the ribs so he would wake up , she spoke a little too sharply .
`` You have n't told him . ''
`` Ouch . ''
Ben sat up and rubbed his side , smiling .
He kissed Leanne but her firm expression did n't change .
`` I thought , best I told him once we got there . ''
`` That 's cruel Ben . ''
`` Cruel is making him so soon to leave . ''
Ben had n't lived in the city since he was young , but he still spoke like a Lexingtonian , switching words around .
It was more pronounced when he was tired .
`` Ben we 've had this conversation .
We have a daughter .
We do not have time to be adopting sons . ''
Ben looked at Sun , asleep in her small bed next to their own .
`` Just take him to Julian .
Julian will help him , '' said Leanne .
`` Have n't talked Julian yet .
Not for a long time . ''
Leanne shook her head .
For calendars she had been trying to break Ben of the habit of skipping words .
He felt it was a part of his heritage , urban farmers of New Lexington having little to talk about and less time to say it , but Leanne felt that it lost him respect when he spoke at chamber meetings .
At heart , it was endearing .
Ben 's voice was the first thing that had attracted her to him .
It was hard to argue with the reassuring baritone , which had the same softness whether he was delivering a speech to the chamber or Ben singing little Sun to sleep .
`` Julian will find a place for the boy , `` she said , `` do n't worry .
I made you breakfast . ''
Then she leaned and whispered in his ear .
`` It 's something very special . ''
Ben seemed to remember .
`` It 's our anniversary ? ''
He said .
`` You forgot ? ''
`` Did n't I forget , I 've only just woken up . ''
Fear is what motivates them .
They do not care if the death toll rises , as long as they are safe .
As long as they are inoculated .
Vaccinated .
They do not care if the outbreak continues .
As long as it does not continue near them .
Fear is the reason they are looking for Maria.” “Of course people are scared , ” I say .
“They should be scared.” “Fear is like a spark .
Fear will ignite a fire.” I feel dizzy .
I am struggling to process what he is saying .
I am struggling to understand .
“The world has not seen the Oz virus , ” he says .
“Not like you and I have .
No .
They have been protected by their governments .
They have been betrayed by their governments .
But I will show them .
I will show them the Oz virus .
The mutations .
I will show them Project Salvation .
I will feed them fear .
I will show them Maria .
I will give them hope .
And then I will take that hope away .
I will destroy it right in front of their eyes.” I am exhausted and weak , possibly hallucinating , possibly dying .
It’s hard to focus .
Hard to process what he just said .
But as far as I could tell , he was going to execute Maria on camera .
Record it for the world to see .
I can not let that happen .
I have to do something .
But what ?
What the hell am I supposed to do ?
“When I destroy hope , ” he continues .
“The world will no longer be in denial .
They will finally accept their fate .
They will be free.” I am alone .
I have been starved and tortured and broken .
But I need to stop this madman .
I need to save Maria .
We promised each other , at the start of our journey .
We promised that we would protect Maria at all costs .
Everything else came second .
Including our own survival .
We promised .
And as I renew this promise to myself and as the sedative continues to work its magic and I slip in and out of consciousness , I realize I have two choices .
I can curl up into a ball and die .
Or I can live .
I can fight .
I can fight for Maria .
I can fight for my friends .
I’m pretty sure I’m dying .
But I choose to fight .
Chapter 1 Denial .
This is where I’m at .
I’ve been in this stage for a while now .
Months .
I was daydreaming .
I had been doing this a lot lately .
I dreamt I was sitting on a couch , in a therapist’s office .
The person interviewing me and judging me was a Sigmund Freud inspired figment of my imagination .
I told him , “I’m in denial .
I’ve been in denial for a long time .
Our goal , our mission was to evacuate Maria .
Save her .
Because she is immune to the Oz virus .
We failed .
Our group has been torn apart .
We have no idea where Kenji is .
He just disappeared .
Ben , the big guy who saved our lives has disappeared as well .
Kim and Jack .
We don’t know where they are either .
There’s a chance Kim is now working with the military .
We just don’t know .
And Daniel ?
Daniel had become sick .
Violently ill. We left him at his camp.” The Sigmund Freud look alike scribbled something in a notepad .
“So now Maria and I are walking through the Australian outback , ” I continued .
“We are trying to find our friends .
We have no idea where they are .
We don’t even know if they are alive .
We are following a set of tank tracks that we think might lead somewhere .
But we really don’t know .
We have hardly any water .
Our food is all but gone.” I looked at the therapist , waiting for some advice , waiting for some magical answer that would make me feel better about our current situation .
But he didn’t say anything .
He just shook his head and checked his watch .
Our time was up .
Maria handed me a bottle of water , snapping me out of my daydream , bringing me back to reality , back to the desert .
It was night time .
The moon hung low in the sky .
The stars were bright .
“Lunch time , ” she said .
“Today we have hot water .
A delicacy in some parts of the world.” It was an attempt at humor .
We had been walking through the desert for three days now .
We had been walking at night .
Sleeping during the day .
As a result , we had totally reversed our body clocks .
It took me several months to adjust to its creaking and settling , especially at night .
There were many times in the beginning , when I 'd thought I 'd heard footsteps coming and going up and down the hall and stairs .
But each time proved to be just the house doing its own kind of breathing .
A few times I 'd been certain that I 'd heard a door slam downstairs or a window open and then close .
I kept telling myself that it was Ronnie who was the ghost believer , not me .
But that would change .
2 It was a warm July night , not too many days from the start of August .
I do n't remember the date exactly , but I do remember that evening – that night .
I had been in my office working on a particularly difficult White Paper for a company in Philadelphia .
I must have rewritten it eight times .
There was a little round brass clock that sat on my desk that chimed on each hour .
Cha-ling , cha-ling , cha-ling , cha-ling .
Seven o'clock .
Time to give it a rest .
I walked over to the window and stood there admiring my willow , hands in my pockets .
I 'm not sure how long I stood there looking at it .
Probably five minutes or so , when I noticed a reflection in the glass .
I remember that it startled me so much I actually let out a little gaspy whimper .
When I turned around , there was nothing behind me .
But when I turned back again to look at the window , there it was .
A tall , dark haired woman appeared to be standing behind me , looking directly at me .
She was standing perfectly still and seemed to be looking past me – through me , out the window .
I turned to look again , but I was still the only one in the room .
A shiver ran up my spine and I could feel the hairs on the back of my neck actually rising .
Not being the ghost aficionado , I was n't quite sure what to do .
Actually , I was pretty much convinced that I 'd just been working too hard and that I probably needed a drink and a good night 's sleep .
Thinking it pretty silly , but doing it anyway , I raised my hand and waved .
The reflection did n't move .
I thought about saying something to it but dismissed that idea .
No need to punctuate crazy .
So I just stood there looking at it through the glass until it faded .
`` Ok , Richard , '' I said .
`` Just because it 's your name does n't mean you have to be one .
There are no such things as ghosts and you know it .
You 're a copywriter , not a horror writer . ''
I kept staring into the glass as I said this , as if the image might reappear just to prove me wrong .
It did n't .
I was almost to the door when I heard the voice .
It was a soft whispery sound and it was edged with sadness and despair .
`` Richard .
Richard , you 've come , '' was all it said .
At least , that 's what I heard .
I turned around .
The room was empty and there were no reflections , save my own , in any of the windows .
I walked back over to the window .
The sun was beginning to dip behind the trees , turning the sky that pinkish-purple color .
An intermittent breeze was blowing and the long hanging branches of the willow would sweep to one side and then fall back again .
It reminded me of how Ronnie 's hair looked whenever we had the top of the jeep down .
I waited , ten ; fifteen ; twenty minutes .
There was no repeat voice or any visions or reflections .
Finally convincing myself that I had n't seen or heard anything , I went downstairs .
The rest of that night was uneventful .
I watched some TV , read a little and then went to bed .
There were no strange dreams ; no disembodied voices ; no unexplained sounds .
In fact , I ca n't remember ever having had a better night 's sleep .
Feeling pretty good , I made myself a full breakfast ( something I rarely ever did ) .
Toast , coffee , two eggs over easy , some Potatoes O'Brian and bacon .
I figured it was going to be a good day…if I could just get a handle on that White Paper .
It was due in two days , so I did n't have a lot of time .
I stacked all the breakfast ware in the sink and headed up to my office .
Halfway up the steps I felt something bump into me .
It was a substantial feeling that pushed me back a step , forcing me to grab the handrail .
I could feel my heart beating in my chest .
I watched in amazement and fear as a line of frost formed on the banister at the top of the steps and swept down the handrail .
At the bottom it condensed into itself and disappeared .
I stood there numb for quite some time , trying to regain what little sanity I thought I had left .
Forcing myself to enter into things I 'd rather not and abandon my disbelief in the spirit world , I said ( a bit timidly ) , `` Ok , who 's there ?
What do you want ? ''
There was no answer .
Of course , I really did n't expect one .
Then I heard the tapping .
It was distant and coming from upstairs , barely audible .
It sounded like plastic being knocked together and I recognized it immediately .
It was a sound I heard every day .
The sound of my computer keyboard being used .
I raced up the steps , sure I 'd find someone in my office , someone who 'd gone to a lot of trouble to try and scare me .
I stood in the hallway , a few feet from my office door , listening .
It was definitely my keyboard .
On tip-toe , I crept toward the open door , my back against the wall .
When I reached the jam , I leapt into the doorway .
The tapping stopped .
The room was empty .
Hesitantly , I walked over to my desk .
The monitor was showing my rotating screen saver , personal pictures and cartoons that I 'd uploaded or downloaded .
I placed my finger on the mouse , not really sure if I wanted to move it – if I wanted to bring my screen to life .
I gave in and pushed it forward .
What came up on the screen made me back up so suddenly that I lost my balance and nearly went crashing out the second story window .
On the screen in front of me , printed in Times Roman were the words : GET THE HELL OUT OF MY HOUSE .
NOW ! , written over and over again , all the way down the page .
All the same , except for the last line , and I think , more than anything , it was the last line that frightened me the most .
It read : GET THE HELL OUT OF M This scared me most because it was evidence that whoever , or whatever , had been using my computer had been interrupted in mid-sentence by my appearance in the doorway .
This I could n't deny , and now I was stuck believing .
And that scared the hell out of me .
I really had no idea what to do .
I wanted to sit down but was afraid to even use my own chair .
What I wanted most was a rational explanation for all of it .
I could n't find one .
Hell , I could n't even invent one .
I was staggered , my sense of reality riddled with holes I could n't patch up .
I thought that , under the circumstances , a nice walk outdoors might do me some good .
He could smell like roses and flowers ! ” she said shuddering and grimacing , “The Reaper isn’t like that.” “He’s cut from different flesh .
Not that he has any of it now.” Finished with the shrouds , Llorona picked them up and carried them through an arched doorway and into an adjoining room .
Her head narrowly missed the great swath of cobwebs that hung across it like a net .
Famine flicked a flowing lock of his shoulder length straw-colored hair from his narrow , but femininely featured chalk-white face and followed her .
She was placing the shrouds on the backs of tall dark chairs arranged around a weathered dining table .
An open coffin sat in the middle .
The rest of the furnishings in the room were sparse ; only a couple of candelabras and an even more beaten up buffet occupied the space .
Famine pulled out one of the chairs sat down , producing a cloud of dust as he did so .
“Why is he coming ? ” The Weeping Woman bent to rummage through the buffet .
Her voice echoed a bit as she stuck her head inside .
“Just to visit , although I can’t imagine him being that casual .
The last thing that man has in him is spontaneity.” “You said to be nice to him.” She came out of the buffet with four long stemmed wine glasses .
She set them around the table and bit her lower lip in thought .
“I am being nice .
Truthful , but nice.” Famine’s face contorted in confusion .
He talked slowly as if trying to figure out some ancient Earth riddle .
“So , you can say whatever you want , no matter how rude it might sound…and still be nice ? ” “That’s the thing .
You can say whatever you want as long as you put it in the right words.” The ancient teenager still sounded perplexed as he spoke .
He looked down at his shiny black boots as if they were going to reveal the answers to him .
“So , it’s not really rude .
It’s truthful while being nice ? ” His guardian smiled .
Now that she thought of it , none of it made sense either .
Sometimes she amused herself with the things she said .
No one ever said it would be easy to shake off human qualities .
“Something like that.” Famine stared blankly at her for a second , slightly tilting his head .
“I see…and you think I’m confusing.” In the lower levels of the mausoleum The Reaper was stirring .
A series of loud crashes and the sound of glass breaking broke the momentary silence .
Muffled curses and maniacal laughter soon followed .
“He’s at it again , ” Famine said in exacerbation .
“It keeps him busy.” “He can’t fix things worth a damn .
He’s blind to it .
Even a zombie could better.” “I know , but as long as he thinks he’s doing something good , everything is better.” “And all we have to show for it are broken steps , holes in the walls , and things that look like they were built by a two-year old .
Nice.” Llorona laughed .
She looked at an open space on the wall opposite the buffet .
Her face suddenly grew brighter .
She snapped her fingers .
“That space needs filling and I have just the thing for it ! ” With that , she flew out of the room .
Famine got up and strolled to the adjoining room .
An open doorway led downstairs .
The ancient cracked stone steps were in need of repair , no doubt another task on The Reaper’s list .
He could hear the old man down there now , still toiling at what he believed to be work .
He would be up soon enough .
Famine turned his attention to the shelves on the walls of the room that served as a human kitchen .
They were filled with large jars of colorful gaseous blobs .
Unlike his namesake , he did need nourishment and these jars were full of the stuff .
He chose a jar of swirling dark blue substance , opened the lid , and breathed in some of the gas .
This batch was particularly thick and sweet…his favorite sort .
Some of the other stuff was foul tasting , thin , and unfilling .
Those were the good souls , he had been told .
Evil ones seemed to breed delicious , saccharine nectar that was unlike any other .
Famine was wise enough to just take enough to slake his thirst without spoiling his appetite .
The last thing he needed was a lecture from The Reaper about ruining the taste of a great gourmet dinner .
He had just returned the jar to the shelf when he heard Llorona call from the other room .
“Famine ! ” her voice boomed .
“Yeah ! ” “Tell The Reaper to get in gear .
Ankou will be here soon !
I love the man but I don’t want to listen to any of his stories alone.” “Yeah I’ll tell him ! ” He was about to shout down when he heard footsteps upon the staircase .
A flickering light grew steadily brighter as the steps got closer .
Soon , a tall skeletal figure in a tattered hooded shroud appeared at the doorway with a torch in hand .
In the other he carried a bottle of dark colored wine .
“You heard ? ” asked Famine .
“The living could hear.” Famine smiled and walked with The Reaper into the dining room .
All the candles had been lit .
Llorona was standing in front of a large painting of a gray and black landscape of dead trees .
She tilted her head as an artist examining her work .
“What do you think ?
Too cheery for dinner ? ” The Reaper sat the wine on the table and looked up at the artwork .
He shook his head in approval .
“One of your better pieces , Llorona .
It fits perfectly.” “Thanks .
I was going through a rather happy mood at the time .
I was afraid it would show it too much.” Llorona rested her arms on the back of a chair and turned to look at her housemates .
“I’m starved .
Have anyone good planned for dinner ? ” The Reaper pointed a bony finger at her .
“I think you’ll like what I prepared .
Got inspired at work last night.” “Sounds intriguing .
Can’t wait.” Famine eyed the bottle The Reaper sat down .
He then looked at the painting and spoke inquisitively .
“Think I could have some of that Chardonnay ? ” “Let me think about it.” “And how long is that going to take ?
Fifty years ? ” The Reaper turned towards him .
A spider crawled out of one of his eye sockets and up his dull gray skull .
He picked it off and threw it to the side .
“Considering how long you’ve been around , fifty years is nothing .
” Famine gave up .
It was never any good arguing with Death itself .
You never won .
He folded his arms and spoke in an exasperating tone .
“I guess.” “It’ll be here before you know it , ” The Reaper said trying to appease him .
Famine said nothing .
He contorted his pencil-thin lips in deep thought .
There was silence for a few more seconds .
That was always the worst .
“I need to pick up that junk I left in the parlor , ” said Llorona suddenly .
She left the room , and The Reaper and Famine followed a few seconds later .
The light coming from under the mausoleum door was very faint .
If that does n't signal Ankou’s arrival , nothing else does , thought Famine .
When it came to dinner visits , Ankou broke “the rules” and always came out just before it got dark .
Sometimes it paid off and he could catch an unsuspecting soul or two .
Famine thought that that was pretty spontaneous for Ankou , even if no one else did .
Llorona took a seat on a moldy , overstuffed sofa in the main family room .
Even so , that did n't stop the fact that he wanted her to be in reach .
He had never met a woman like her .
So he had stayed .
He had seen something in her .
Something hard , some will he himself had that was hard to define , but that hardness in her pulled him to her like a magnet .
It was that simple .
He had been working for Junior by then , and so he had mentioned Beth to him .
He did n't know how the details had worked out , but a few weeks later when he had noticed she had disappeared from the avenue , he had found her working at Junior 's Palace .
As he walked he became immune to the world around him .
He never heard Jon until he was on him , had spun him around , and dragged him into an alley .
“Hey ... Hey !
Jon ... What the fuck , Jon ... Hey ! ” but it did no good .
The first punch nearly shut him down .
The second did .
The rest he never knew about .
L.A. : 2:00 am .
Beth The night wore on .
The morning came and went and the club shut down for another day .
Beth worked at cleaning up the last little area of the bar as two of the dancers finished their drinks and hushed conversations , smiled at her , and walked away .
A short conversation with Jon , he had probably made some crude remark ; Beth had seen how both of them had instantly stiffened their backs after he spoke .
It was n't just her , Jon was an actual creep .
Whatever he had said the two girls chose to ignore it , turning away , making eye contact with Beth , waving as if they had been at the bar talking to her , and when Jon looked back to see who they had been waving at they slipped out the door .
Jon made his way over to the bar .
“You scared my honeys away , ” he told her .
“I think you can do that all on your own , ” Beth told him .
“What 's that supposed to mean ? ” Jon asked .
Beth frowned and shook her head .
Sometimes she wondered if Jon even knew what a creep he was .
How he made the girls who worked here , her included , feel .
“It means that not everyone is always on the same page , ” Beth said .
She had changed her mind at the last second .
She had to work here .
Jon was the nephew of the owner .
Creep or not he was part of the package .
Jon looked confused .
“Jon Jon , it means that sometimes you just have to let things happen .
Go slow .
A girl wants to think it was her own idea to like you , ” she told him .
“Yeah ...
I can see that , but when you need it you need it .
Some of these bitches need to be on point.” One finger disappeared into his nose and then he seemed to suddenly remember she was there .
“You know , me and you need to hook up .
I got ... ” One massive hand settled onto his shoulder , and he stopped in mid sentence .
“Disappear , Jon Jon .
I need to talk to Beth right now , ” Tommy told him as he sat down on one of the stools .
'We was just talking , uncle Tommy.” “Right , and now you 're done talking ...
Unless you 're not ?
Am I interrupting you ? ” Jon turned beet red .
He laughed to hide the embarrassment .
“No ... No , ” he turned and walked away .
Tommy turned to Beth .
“I guess you 'll have to get used to the kid .
He 's a pain in the ass , but he 's my pain in the ass ... Load to bear , ” He turned and watched Jon step out the door to the parking lot .
“Jon Jon , ” Tommy yelled .
Jon poked his head back in the door and looked at his uncle .
“Take a good look around out there , make sure the lot 's empty , and the girls all got to their cars okay.” “Okay , uncle Tommy , ” Jon called back .
The dopey smile that he usually wore settled back on his face as he stepped out into the darkness .
Tommy turned back to Beth .
'Billy Jingo , ” he said .
Beth looked at him .
“I think that kid is bad news for you ... Not telling you how you should live your life , just distributing advice ... A girl like you , a dancer , do n't need a distraction like that .
The customers do n't want to see no boyfriend hanging around .
Spoils the fantasy.” He held her stare .
“It 's not like that , Tommy .
“Billy is a friend only ...
Lives in the same building.” She had caught the fact that he had said she was a dancer .
Something she was n't yet , unless ... “Uh huh , but he wants you .
The kid is like a love sick puppy .
If you could step back and look at it you would see it clearly .
Are you telling me you are smart enough to handle Jon Jon , and you ca n't see this Jingo kid has it bad for you ? ” Beth shrugged .
“No ...
I know ...
I know that , but he knows it is n't going to happen .
He knows what the deal is.” “Good ... That 's all I 'm saying , but you need to tell him to stay away ... Ca n't be hanging around while you 're working ... See ? ” Beth nodded .
“I see.” “Good , cause next week you start as a dancer .
I know you ... ” He stopped as Beth lunged across the bar and hugged him , squealing as she did .
He hugged her back , laughing .
She kissed his cheek , and then her smile went away a little as one of his hands cupped the side of her breast .
Her eyes focused on his .
“I think we 'll become good friends , Baby , ” he told her .
She nodded as his hand roamed a little further , and then trailed away across the flat plains of her stomach .
She pulled back .
Tommy wore a crooked smile on his face .
“So we understand each other ? ” “Yeah , ” Beth told him .
“So smile then .
Let 's have a drink ... On me ... Pour us something good , Baby , ” Tommy told her .
3:00 am Beth smoothed her skirt flat as she stepped out into the darkness of the parking lot .
She had spent over a month trying to convince Tommy to let her dance .
She had gotten her wish , and more than she had bargained for , a relationship with Tommy .
She was n't sure how that was going to be defined in public , but in private it was going to be defined as a sexual relationship .
He had just defined it for her , she would have to wait to see what the public definition was going to be , but she had a good idea how it was going to be .
Nan , the dancer Tommy was currently seeing , was going to be upset .
Tommy was not subtle .
It had been clear that they had been seeing less and less of each other .
She had no doubt that her first night of dancing he was going to make it clear she was his .
Like a dog marking his territory .
She sighed , off the street , but still getting fucked for money .
She hated putting it that starkly in her head , but that was the plain truth .
She was still selling it , just different terms , better money , better protection .
She heard footsteps running behind her and her breath caught in her throat .
Dagger looked up .
The gypsy himself stood on the door with a lamp in his hand .
“The color of your eyes ! ” The boy on the ground noticed .
“Oh , Ktisis !
What color are your eyes ? ” Checkmate the king , Dagger thought .
Rule number one !
Screamed the voice of old Mama in his mind .
Who sees you in face while you work , dies !
“Curse you Ktisis ! ” he muttered again .
The boy merely raised his trembling hands in the air .
“Don’t kill me !
P-please , don’t kill me ! ” he whined .
“I’m sorry , I’m so sorry !
I don’t want to die here , please !
I’m afraid ! ” “Just shut up , dammit ! ” “Wadda fuck happens there ? ” the gypsy shouted from the door .
“Shit ! ” Dagger cursed .
“Help ! ” “Man , just shut up ! ” “Oh , de fuck I come out there to help a stranger ! ” the gypsy decided , before closing the door once again , and turning off the light .
Dagger looked down at his client and felt him tremble under the knife .
“And… now what ? ” the boy gasped in fear .
Dagger smiled .
“Now ?
You’ve seen my face , what do you think happens now ? ” he replied .
“You must die , there’s no alternative .
‘A dead man tells no lies’ the old man always says and he’s damn right .
If I don’t kill you , there will be consequences , we both know it .
There are always consequences in this world , especially for the ones like me .
However , takin’ your life away , I can fix all this mess .
You’ll probably agree.” “No ! ” “Yes.” “I have a sister , a little sister .
Please , please , I want to see her again !
She has only me in the whole world ! ” Dagger stood still , knife clutched in his hand , the edge pressing on the throat’s skin , on the carotid and the red life that flowed into it .
Then the grin disappeared from his face .
He closed his eyes and , cursing his god no longer , but for the day he was born , he stood up .
“It’s your lucky night , motherfucker , ” he said .
“You did say the magic words.” When the boy’s eyes asked for an explanation , Dagger kicked at his temple .
He hoped the blow was strong enough to make him forget about a lot of things .
* * * * * Dawn was breaking when Dagger got back to the ship cemetery .
The district of Melekesh where anyone who had something to lose , including life , was advised not to approach .
Here , there were no streets , and no alleys .
The cemetery was entirely made up of ships that had been beached and abandoned to rot in the sun .
Over the centuries , many were reduced to wooden skeletons that didn’t seem to have ever seen better times .
Eroded by water , gnawed by rodents , dismantled for firewood before water soaked their souls .
Their groans rose into the air in an endless dirge , weaker in summer , stronger in winter when dampness swelled the wooden planks making them split .
In that unhealthy place , where everything was suspended between mud , tar , and sea , blades claimed more victims than hunger .
Few of its inhabitants lived to see their thirtieth year .
The old Mama , the master of his guild , was one of them .
Perhaps he had survived all that time because he rarely got out of his vessel .
To tell the truth , Dagger could not remember ever having seen him get out of his cabin .
In a small pond , crowded with sharks , Mama understood that attracting little attention was a good way to stay alive , especially when it meant not stepping on the toes of the district’s most influential guild , located in the three imposing galleons anchored at the center of the cemetery .
There went those who could make a career in that small , dirty world populated by usurers , rapists and thieves , whores , fences and smugglers .
Where you killed for nothing and died for less .
Even Mawson’s guards were afraid to venture into the neighborhood .
There were no laws , except the ones its inhabitants gave themselves from death to death .
Dagger set foot on the deck of the old ship where Mama had established his lair .
The deck had collapsed in several places and been carpeted with repairs that , over time , had changed its original architecture .
It was no longer a ship , had never been a home , and would never become a refuge .
It was just a burrow , a spider hole to scurry into at the end of the night .
He knocked three times by six on the door and waited .
Two big green eyes appeared from the slit of the peephole .
“Password.” “Prefect Mawson’s hands stink of our shit , ” Dagger answered .
The eyes disappeared and the door opened in a rattle of bolts and chains .
He was sure he was the last .
All the other Spiders quit hours earlier , maybe some didn’t even get out that night .
It was becoming easier to accept the relentless punishment of Mama on those rotten days , rather than venturing out in the dark and rain , given the proximity of the sacred festivals held to honor Ktisis and their unique rituals .
A misty light barely penetrated through the cracks in the ceiling , falling on a group of Spiders .
They were sitting down , playing dice .
Their knives planted in the ground .
He wondered where they could find all that energy at the end of the night .
Then he saw .
Some of them were secretly licking magic dust from their dirty fingers and , judging from their delighted smiles , he realized that Mama would get seriously angry soon again .
He hated when his Spiders used those remedies to stay awake and not feel the hunger .
They were an income for him , all of them .
Those he did not lose because of the guards and the diseases , he lost to that damn dust .
Some Spiders were coughing .
Others violently scratched the pustules on their arms and legs .
Some were lying on the ground , unconscious , at least he hoped , because of fatigue or starvation .
Alone in a corner , one of them spat a blood clot on the ground .
It was no wonder that the others avoided him .
The little wretch held out his hand , looking at him with eyes sunken in their sockets .
“Give me a Dragoon , won’t you ? ” he whispered .
“Do you got a Dragoon , Dag ? ” Dagger walked on .
The wretch was already dead , helping him would only serve to prolong his suffering .
Green death did not spare .
With the yellow one , maybe you could get by somehow , if someone amputated your hands before decay ate the rest of your body .
With the green one , it was better to surrender as soon as possible : you rot slowly , day after day , you could watch yourself falling apart .
The smell you took up was no longer that of a human being , not a living one at least : it reminded one of fish left to rot under the sun on a hot summer day .
It was a disease with a subtle sense of irony , however : when the rotting stopped , when it seemed things were getting better , and you thought you have survived after all , that was the worst moment .
You could be certain that the disease had begun to eat you from the inside and suddenly , one day , you woke up with larvae pushing against the skin of your belly to open a hole through which it would escape .
He let himself fall to the ground at the end of the room , laying his head in the crook of his arm , falling asleep immediately .
He was awakened by a slap on the nape .
“How long did I sleep ? ” he instinctively asked .
“Your head practically bounced on the floor , big bro.” Dagger managed to keep his eyes open .
He remembered his name , he remembered who he was and what kind of world he lived in , but again was missing why .
He crossed Seeth’s gaze , who was looking at him , smiling as always .
“A little tired , uh ? ” “Well , I worked this night , little sis ! ” “How much did you get ? ” “… ’ lem me sleep…” “Dag , how much ? ” “Six Dragoon , clean clean , ” Dagger muttered , rubbing his eyes and yawning .
“And you ?
How much did you scrap up ? ” “Nothing ! ” “Oh , really ? ” “Nothing at all , ” Seeth repeated , looking down .
“This place can’t feed us all .
We’re too many .
Any white trash spewed from the city ends up in the guild , so—” “How much do you need , this time ? ” Dagger interrupted .
Seeth raised her face .
This left some characters frustratingly ambiguous .
On one side , for example , there were ten characters arranged in three rows .
To Albert , they appeared to read , I Z V I I I O O S T but it was difficult to be certain .
It was impossible to tell whether some of these characters represented numbers or letters .
The straight vertical lines could have been the number one or the letter I , for example .
Or even a lower-case L. The S could have been a five .
The two Os in the bottom line were drawn as squares , and could have been zeros instead , or for all he knew they could actually have been intended as squares .
There was simply no way to know for sure , which made the clue that much more puzzling .
He had pondered over these three lines for hours now , trying to decipher them .
The middle line could have been the Roman numeral seven , but with nothing else to go on , and no idea how to decipher the other two , he had no way of knowing for certain .
It could be a V and an eleven .
For that matter , the lines comprising the V were slightly crossed at the bottom .
It could even have been a sloppy X .
Frustrated , he turned the box around .
Perhaps the most haunting of the messages was written on the side opposite the keyhole .
Here there were five lines .
The first four were complete words .
From top to bottom they read HELP , COME , TOGETHER and YESTERDAY .
The fifth line was not a word , but just three letters : G , N and J .
These lines were much easier to read than the previous three , even with their straight-line lettering , but with the legibility came a haunting feeling .
Help .
Come .
It was as though someone were calling out to him for something .
But what could yesterday mean ?
Was it literal ?
If so , he’d received the box the previous evening , so yesterday would have been two days ago .
Or did it mean the past in general ?
Help come together yesterday .
It made no sense .
And how did the last line fit in ?
Perhaps it was someone’s or something’s initials .
The final side of the box was carved with only seven letters , scrawled across the surface diagonally from corner to corner , in larger letters than the other messages .
B R A N D Y R He thought that he recognized these letters .
It looked like a name .
Brandy R. He knew a Brandy R. Or at least he’d met a Brandy R. Brandy Rudman was his lab partner in Chemistry .
She was a sophomore , one year ahead of him and likewise a year older , nearly twenty , while he was barely nineteen , yet she could have passed as a sixteen-year-old high school student , small and girlish with a soft face and small , modest figure .
She was very pretty .
He had not expected to find a lab partner so quickly , but she was sitting in front of him on that first day and when the instructor told them to pair off she turned around , scanning the other students in the class until her pretty eyes fell on him .
“You mind ? ” she asked simply , to which he replied a startled “Sure.” It was just dumb luck for him .
He’d been attending classes for not yet a day and a half at a school where he recognized no one and instead of being the last lonely student standing around looking for a pair that would allow him to join , as he’d expected to be , he found himself paired off almost at once and with a very pretty young woman .
And by even greater luck , she had so far turned out to be a very lovely person to know as well , friendly , kind , outgoing and fun .
His Chemistry lab was scheduled for Tuesdays and Thursdays at ten o’clock in the morning .
Today was Thursday .
That morning he stuffed the box inside his green backpack and took it with him to class , intending to see if she knew anything about it , but she was as ignorant of its origins as everyone else he’d spoken with , his last chance at an answer severed at its root .
“Must be another Brandy R. , ” she’d concluded , peering down into his backpack at the strange , wooden box .
“I’ve never seen it before .
It was in your car ? ” “Yeah .
All the doors were still locked .
Nothing broken.” “Weird.” Weird was right .
It was also disappointing .
A part of him had hoped for an excuse to get to know Brandy a little better .
Albert turned and looked at the clock again .
It was after five now .
He needed to go eat dinner .
He usually tried to go before Derek returned .
The less time he spent with him the better .
He stood up and stretched .
Some time away from the box would do him good .
He was becoming frustrated with it again .
Perhaps everyone was right , perhaps the box was never meant for him and he would never understand where it came from or what it meant .
But that thought became like a looming darkness .
He did not want to be left ignorant .
He wanted to know about this box .
He wanted to understand it .
He didn’t like to leave mysteries unsolved .
It simply wasn’t his nature .
He was reaching for his shoes when the phone rang .
It would probably be somebody looking for Derek .
Somebody was always looking for Derek .
It was funny how Albert was always looking to avoid him .
He sat down on the bed and answered the phone .
“Is Albert there ? ” It was a woman’s voice , feminine , petite , pretty .
“Speaking , ” he replied .
“Hi .
This is Brandy .
From Chem.” Albert stood up again , surprised .
They exchanged numbers the first day of class in case either of them missed and needed notes , but he never expected her to use it .
“Hi.” “Hey , did you find anything out about that box ? ” “No .
Not a thing.” His heart sped up a notch when she told him who she was .
Now it jumped again , shifting from second to third .
Brandy was quiet for so long that he began to think the line was disconnected , but before he could ask if she was still there she said , “There was something in my car when I left class today.” Fourth gear .
He started walking across the room , pacing as he sometimes did when he was on the phone .
“What did you get ? ” Instead of answering , she said , “You’re in Lumey , right ? ” “That’s right.” Lumey Hall was the most expensive dormitory on campus .
He’d spent the extra money for the semi-private bathroom and coed environment .
From his first tour of the Hill he did not like the prison-like feel of the community halls elsewhere on campus , so he forked over nearly twice what other freshmen were paying in the Cube .
Over here , two rooms made up a suite and a bathroom connected the two , so only four people shared facilities , instead of an entire floor .
Also , unlike any other building , Lumey was entirely coed , hence the fact that there were girls living right across the hall from him .
And since Lumey was usually reserved for students with a junior standing or higher , he was very fortunate to obtain his room .
It turned out that the freshmen dormitories were overcrowded .
In the next few years they would probably have to build a new one .
“What floor ? ” “Second floor .
Room two-fourteen.” “Meet me in the second floor lounge .
I’ll be there in about twenty minutes.” “Okay.” She hung up without saying goodbye and he stood staring at the dead phone , his mind a cyclone of thoughts .
He was about to get information about the box .
Maybe together they would figure out what it was and who gave it to him .
Chapter 2 Twenty minutes turned out to be twenty-five .
Albert would be the first to agree that five minutes was hardly an eternity , but Brandy knew something about the box , something she was not willing to disclose over the phone .
Now every minute passed like an hour as he sat in the second floor lounge of Lumey Hall , waiting to see what she knew .
There was something in my car when I left class today .
Those words kept ringing in his ear .
An ill-fitting leather boot—taken from a fallen Confederate—caught on the wall .
Frank tumbled to the ground , masonry crumbling over him in retribution for ill treatment .
“Jesus , Frank , ” the much larger and less excitable Jimmy muttered .
He lumbered around the bulwark to help his friend back to his feet .
In a moment , both were standing over the small pot , staring down .
It boiled over with a rich brown liquid .
Jimmy initially was most pleased at the sight , but a frown teased his heavy brow .
“What’s that ? ” he asked , confused .
“This , ” Frank replied proudly , “is the best morning brew you’re gon na get .
Come on , now , get it in you.” Jimmy was not convinced .
His thick shoulders hunched under the burden of dashed hope .
“What are those brown things in there ? ” “Now , don’t you worry ‘bout that none , Jimmy , ” Frank continued .
Excitedly he grabbed a dented metal filter and poured his big companion a cup of the steaming brew .
Jimmy accepted it with a nod , and brought it to his rather large nose for a sniff .
He raised an eyebrow , just like he always did when confused .
“Reeber said we’re out of coffee , ” Jimmy muttered .
A second sniff brought a smile , however .
“Reeber ! ” Frank retorted , offended .
“Reeber ain’t half the cook I am !
Why , him an’ his messmates ain’t had nothing but boiled water for a week ! ” Jimmy nodded grudgingly and continued to sip the hot brew , judging .
Frank watched intently .
Jimmy grimaced slightly at first , but slowly his taciturn features relaxed .
“I have sugar ! ” Frank blurted impatiently .
Though a grown man with an unkempt beard , his behavior was most childlike .
“If it’s too strong , I mean.” Before Jimmy could reply , Frank broke off a chunk of red cone sugar and plunked it into the cup .
Surprised , Jimmy stalled by watching it crumble and dissolve in the hot brew .
A smile touched his lips after another sip had .
Judgment had been made , and Frank’s work had passed muster .
Still , Jimmy was ever suspicious .
“Francois , what is this ? ” “Do you like it ? ” Frank asked , eager to hear the words .
“It ain’t coffee.” “But do you like it ? ” he pressed .
Jimmy nodded , then gave the fidgeting man what he yearned for .
“Yeah , I like it .
But it ain’t coffee.” Frank danced a victory jig .
With great ceremony , including a flourish of his hands dramatic enough for the boards , he cried , “No sir , it sure ain’t !
It’s better than coffee ! ” “So Reeber was right , ” Jimmy repeated .
Frank stopped his self-congratulations to look up at the large , powerful Jimmy Gambauer .
He idolized this man in the Confederate gray frock coat , this man with a large , wandering nose and heavy brow .
His knuckles were crisscrossed with scars and calluses from a long ago youth of fighting and toil .
Jimmy was a monument to sheer force and—fortunately for many—self-restraint .
He was a middle-aged , quiet man now , careful in words and deliberate in action .
However , when his anger was stoked , he exploded with all the spectacle of the Fourth of July .
There was no one alive who Frank wanted to please more—not because he was worthy , but because Jimmy Gambauer was his only friend .
“Yes , ” Frank admitted , crestfallen .
“Reeber was right .
Of course he was right , we ain’t got no coffee .
But—but tell me this ain’t better !
Reeber’s messmates are gon na wake up this morning to nothin’ but cold February chill , and they ain’t gon na have nothing to help .
Not so with us ! ” “Not so with us , ” Frank repeated with a defiant pout .
“You did good , Francois , ” Jimmy acknowledged kindly , “Really , you did good.” He put his huge arm around Frank’s slender shoulders and roughed him up as if he were a younger sibling .
Frank beamed under the treatment .
Jimmy wouldn’t let him off the hook , however .
“So tell me , chef , what is this stuff ? ” With obvious pride , Frank explained , “I found some acorns a few days ago .
I waited ‘til they was ripe , then I washed ‘em in the shell .
Then I sun dried ‘em so they opened .
I took the shells off , roasted ‘em with a little bacon fat , and just brewed it up this morning ! ” “What are those brown things in the pot , then ? ” Jimmy asked , mixing amusement with alarm .
“Acorns ? ” “Yeah ! ” Frank said .
“I tossed in a couple .
You know , a garnish.” “Garnish ? ” “Yeah.” Jimmy’s brow pulled up nearly all the way to his hairline .
Frank waited in silence .
Finally Jimmy repeated , “A garnish ? ” “Yes , Jimmy .
A garnish.” He chuckled into his bent tin cup and said , “You really are an odd one , Francois.” Seeing Frank’s face fall again , Jimmy quickly added , “But you did good.” The others were starting to rise .
The sun was yet hidden behind the forested hills .
A light breeze chased away the mist lazing over the river .
It was warm for early February , and the chill was already leaving with the warmth in the breeze .
A handful of tired , slender men shuffled toward the unfinished bulwark where Frank and Jimmy stood .
“Hey , ” a soldier named Kent called , “Frenchy’s got some coffee , just like he promised ! ” “Really ?
I thought he was lyin’.” Kent rushed forward and eagerly shoved his battered cup at Frank .
Skinny arms stretched to extend the mouths of clinking tin cups like a nest of hatchlings fighting for their mother’s morsel , gullets extended , selfishly awaiting a worm .
With pleasure Frank distributed the morning coffee to all .
Those brave men had an overwhelming task ahead of them .
Just yesterday , General Tilghman had come to the camp for review .
He had not seemed pleased with the situation , undoubtedly knowing something of Yankee movements .
All knew a battle was coming… a big one .
The Confederates were outnumbered and outgunned .
Their fevered preparations in building Fort Heiman were fueled by this acknowledgement .
Though Fort Henry was fully built across the river , it was poorly designed .
If the river remained low , its dry backside was at best exposed to ground troops .
And every day the enemy neared , every day the river rose , and every day their hopes dwindled .
But not today .
Franks messmates started the day with shining morale !
Even better than their smiles and horseplay so soon after waking to a day of dire news , was Jimmy’s smile .
This was why Frank rose before dawn .
Now , more than ever , did the little things matter .
Frank had so little to offer .
To see it accepted gratefully made his heart soar .
“General’s a comin’ ! ” All the boys scattered at the words , racing off to the far end of the construction .
A small crowd was forming around the half-finished walls further from the bluff .
Frank could only see the occasional glimpse of the general’s hat as the soldiers flocked around him .
Within seconds he was standing alone by the pitiful little campfire .
Even Jimmy had gone .
Frank looked down at the now-empty pot roasting over the fire .
Quietly he removed it from the heat , his back to the men clamoring over their leader .
Frank was not so interested to hear what the general had to say .
Everybody knew what he was going to say , anyway .
They were all going to die .
* * * * * Brigadier General Tilghman was a strong-looking man , with long , wavy hair combed back to reveal a wide forehead and a thick beard hiding mouth and chin .
He looked splendid in his gray coat with ornately gilded cuffs : a gem among rubble .
Perhaps he was not unaware of the difference in his appearance from the men surrounding him––who were not well fed , not well armed… and not many .
Finally Frank’s curiosity overcame him .
`` So -- '' The visitor continued .
`` What 's the plan ?
Return to sender ? ''
Tomlinson was the one to laugh this time , cackling through a cough at the behest of his blackened lungs .
`` You think it 's just that easy , do n't you ? ''
He grinned .
`` Just put a stamp on the son of a bitch , pitch it in a little blue box on the corner and let the postman do the rest ? ''
`` No sir , I 'm not quite that naive .
That is the goal , though , right ?
To send it back ? ''
`` Of course it is , the goddamned thing certainly ca n't stay here ! ''
`` So what do we do ?
Can we send it up from here ? ''
`` Hell no , Ambassador !
We have n't got the logistics behind us to pull that off , let alone a cover story good enough to pacify the sooth-sayers out there !
It 's not gon na be easy , but we 're gon na have to get it to The Cape ... there 's no other option . ''
`` The Cape ? ''
Butler returned , seeming dumbfounded at the very notion .
`` That 's three thousand miles away , sir !
If our friends know that it 's here , how can you expect to move it across the country without them picking it off ? ''
`` Very carefully . ''
`` I should say so -- I 'm not sure how well you know our friends , but I like to think I 'm pretty well versed in their ways .
With that said , I would n't want to be caught dead in possession of that thing if they figure out what 's going on . ''
`` If they figure out what 's going on , we 'll likely wish they 'd caught us dead .
That 's why I wonder why we ever got involved in this mess to begin with .
It 's your problem . ''
`` You would 've been involved one way or another ; you should be thankful that we taught you the rules before you were simply thrust into the game . ''
`` Thankful is n't nearly the right emotion , Ambassador .
But it is what it is ... we 'll do what we have to do and get this mess put behind us , where it belongs . ''
`` Certainly The Council told you that there 's no way you 'll get it moved without , um -- capturing the attention of our friends ? ''
`` They said it was highly unlikely that our efforts would go undetected .
With that being said , I think our goal should be to confuse the hell out of them -- make them work for it ... '' '' You 've already got a plan in place ? ''
`` Who do you think you 're talking to , Ambassador ?
Not only is there a plan , the wheels are already in motion !
You know as well as I do , there 's no time to waste ! ''
`` Do n't rush it though , sir ...
I imagine every craft in the sky large enough to move it will be vaporized on sight .
We ca n't afford to lose Polyphemus , General Tomlinson ... it 's out last hope . ''
`` We will not lose it , Ambassador ... you can mark my words on that .
Besides , I did n't say anything about the wings of my plan being in motion , did I ?
No -- I said the wheels . ''
Chapter 2 The trusty Cummins engine of my haggard 1989 Kenworth W900 tractor put down its throaty bass line as I rocked and rolled my way towards Mira Loma , California .
I had the stereo cranked up all the way so I could hear the jams over the roar of the old motor , my favorite Lynyrd Skynyrd track pushing me along as the sun peaked over the horizon .
`` Well I 'm travelin ' down the road , got my suit-case by my si-de . ''
I sang along with the late great Ronnie Van Zandt as he told the story of my life in lyric .
`` Blue skies hang-in over my head , I got five-hundred miles to ri-de . ''
Blues skies were present now , but the night that carried me over to this morning had been rough ; lots of fog and rain in the mountains to keep my attention as I held on to the big wheel with white-knuckles .
In my early truckin ' days I probably would 've stopped and hid , but I 've seen just about everything Mother Nature has to offer out here .
I do n't often bend to her will any more .
I was running late , after all , since I 'd cut two drive tires back in Ohio .
My rig was loaded to the brim with forty-thousand pounds of chocolate candy , so it was n't too keen on moving over quickly when I spotted debris in my lane on the freeway .
Shit happens , as they say ... there was n't much I could do but hold on tight and wrestle her over to the shoulder , then wait for the wrecker .
That 's another thousand bucks down the drain in rubber -- big truck driving can be a hell of a way to try and make a living .
Outside of the weather and tire troubles , this run had been pretty straightforward .
I managed to sneak into the MGM when I passed through Vegas , which is always fun .
No help recouping my expenses at the craps table , though ... should 've known lady luck was n't on my side before I ever sat down .
I ca n't resist a good game of dice -- do n't ask me why .
I work hard for my money , you 'd think I 'd be a little more conservative when it comes to laying it out on the line ( or the horn as it is in my case -- high-yo ! ) .
`` Well I 'm a Whiskey -- Rock-a-Rolla !
That 's what I am . ''
I sung on .
`` Women , whiskey and mi-les of travelin ' -- that 's all I under-sta-a-and ! ''
I pulled my attention from the road ahead and looked down at my gauges when I crossed the line into California , realizing I 'd need to stop for one last shot of diesel before I continued on to make my drop .
There would n't be time for a shower on this particular detour , but I 'd at least have a little time to check out the load boards and figure out how I was gon na make my way back towards home .
My son Sammy 's mid-winter break was just a week away ...
I refused to miss another chance to catch up with him .
A Pilot Travel Center in the distance was calling my name , so I flipped on my turn signal and merged right to catch the exit .
The corrugated stainless steel sides of my trailer caught the sun as I stopped at the traffic light at the end of the ramp , a bright glare blinding people in the little cars next to me .
My rig was old , but it was clean and well maintained .
I 've always been proud of it ; even now with nearly two-million miles under my belt with her .
I enjoy polishing and primping her every chance I get .
The tractor seems powerful with its big , boxy lines and shining Metallic Black Cherry finish .
There 's no rust on my ride , baby -- not a spot from front to back .
No dents , creases or folds in the metal ... not even scrapes on the sides that most trucks get from brushing against untrimmed tree branches .
I treat her like the queen that she is , and she always take good care of me in return .
After making a hard right then jogging left into the entrance marked Trucks , I pulled up to the fuel island .
My jaw dropped a bit when I saw that a gallon was gon na cost me nearly four dollars -- they 're Nazi 's out here on the west coast .
I needed the juice , so I slid my Comcheck fuel card and watched the cents chug away .
I topped off the tanks on both sides , taking a minute to open my side box and retrieve my trusty bottle of Windex .
I loved working to shine Big Red up by scrubbing the bug carcasses off the front end .
I gave her an affectionate pat on the grill as she rattled on , thanking her for keeping me company on another safe journey across the nation .
The refrigeration device on the trailer was making a knocking noise , so I climbed up on the catwalk of the tractor and opened up the engine doors to see what could be wrong .
My experienced ear could tell right away that it was the compressor getting ready to give up the ghost again ... it was worn down pretty bad and the belt had loosened up , so the noise was it beating against the plastic guards .
The innards of the machine were n't in good shape anymore ; I had pushed the unit pretty hard for quite some time , and I was worried that it was gon na die on me any day .
`` Hold on there a little longer , Betsy . ''
I begged the inanimate object .
`` I 've got some money saved up , I 'll get you changed out as soon as we roll back into Tampa . ''
Closing the doors again , I checked the operator display at the side .
The temperature in the trailer was still holding firm at fifty-five degrees ; more than cool enough to keep all the Hershey bars I was loaded with from melting in the California heat .
I hoped that I 'd be lucky enough to book a return load that did n't need to run terribly cold .
I could handle some produce or fresh meat , but I was n't sure I wanted to test my reefer with anything that needed to be kept frozen .
My finances were tight in the troubled economy , the last thing I needed was a big cargo claim .
I carry good insurance , of course , but my reefer breakdown deductible is three-thousand big ones .
Does n't sound like much , but it would probably bankrupt me if I had to pay it out all at once on top of fixing my unit .
The fuel pumps had stopping clicking at this point , so I snatched them out of my tanks .
I had apparently run their supply pretty dry , as each of them took a hundred and forty-five gallons .
You regular folks out there think you feel sick when you put fifty bucks in your SUV -- trying looking at the gauge and seeing over eleven-hundred on the display .
Thank god for credit and reasonable interest rates is all I can say ...
I took my receipt and filed it away with all the others for my book keeper , Janet , to review when I got back home .
That woman is a life saver , let me tell you .
He was so used to putting everyone’s need above his , that he simply could not stand up for himself .
She got the house , the kids and a wonderful deal on alimony and child support .
Bob never could confront or fight with anybody .
He was scared almost .
Scared of himself .
Scared of some deep , dark thing that was welling within him and threatening to break through to the surface .
The surface was his carefully , constructed persona or ego .
The ever helping , supremely sacrificing , loyal , hard working person .
That was who he was or so he thought .
That was the one person everybody saw .
The meek pushover .
The person whose feelings never mattered and the more they pushed , the more Bob bent over backwards to compensate- almost afraid that his deeper , darker side might break free .
He did not know who else to be , this was him .
Then the layoff happened .
He could not make sense of it all .
At least the divorce , he could blame it on women and the laws favoring them and go hang out with like minded people and complain about how wronged he was and what a saint he was .
But this , there was no explanation , no reasoning .
He had been in the company for 22 years and this new guy at the top only for three years .
The top guy had brought in his former colleagues right from the start and there was no explaining it away- it looked like a hit job .
He had very good performance reviews .
He always did a good job , worked very hard .
But everyone was fired , not just him and to top it all off , the national political atmosphere had turned against people like him .
He was being called a lazy , drunk creature that did not work only so they could collect unemployment benefits .
Benefits that would barely be a quarter of what he was making and that does not include the benefits and stock options and 401k matches .
Bob was despondent .
Utterly dejected and really did not know what to do .
All his life , he had been the good guy , the self-sacrificing lamb , the one people could call at 4 am for help .
That was his identity and now that did not matter .
His divorce had almost broken him-for he could not make sense of it .
But he had his work and his work family to fall back on and he poured his energies into work .
Now this .
Bob finally said goodbye to his company and filled out his unemployment forms .
He lived out in the North Bay close to the Russian River in a barn in the woods .
After his divorce , he moved there as the woods reminded him of his home growing up in Oregon .
Bob did not get see much of his children- Stacy made sure of that .
The property was an old horse barn , but the owner Ethel was now 80 years old , deaf and had stopped breeding horses .
She had rented out the help’s quarters and Bob lived in a cabin away from the main building .
It was old Ethel and him all alone .
He liked the solitude .
But now he felt trapped .
It was a long commute each day on the Golden Gate transit bus and back and he worked late and often worked at home too .
But now , nothing .
His colleagues still had mortgages and were as despondent as him and all terribly worried-especially with the economy the way it was .
Bob took the bus anyway and got off close to the Golden Gate Bridge .
He took another connector and got off to the base from where he could walk on the bridge .
Funny he never noticed its beauty as he commuted everyday over it .
But today it looked wonderful as that chatter in his head stopped .
He walked on and came to the middle of the bridge and there was a big Chinese ship going underneath .
He was transfixed by it .
The bay and the ocean on the other side were so clear .
Bob stared onto the water and the islands and San Francisco for a long time - he felt at peace and he wanted to jump into the waters below- never to worry about his troubles again .
Then he remembered an interview about a person who had done the same , but had survived and broken his back .
That scared him-to wake up in a hospital possibly in a coma or paralyzed .
He walked back and went home again .
Bob’s addiction was work .
It defined him , it consumed him .
He took pride at beating the odds and moving up .
Now everything was ripped from him .
That too by people from other countries and he was forced to teach them how to do his job !
Nothing he could come up with , made sense of his situation .
Yes he could vent and fume , but that would not get his job back .
Now he had to go file court documents for reducing child support and face the dreaded Stacy and her mother again who always treated him like a failure no matter what he did .
He felt like a sand castle with the waves lapping and threatening to devour him .
The waves were that inner darkness ; the inner demons that he had held at bay for so long .
The rage at never having his needs met , the anger at having to endure an abusive marriage and yet be treated like the abuser by the system .
The rage at having worked so hard for decades and being tossed aside like a piece of garbage so that the management can get a bigger bonus .
The rage at being in a populace that now considered hard working people like him to be welfare cheats , while not holding any of the nasty people who caused this economic collapse accountable .
That bugged him the most .
He did not have a single thing to hold onto and was so lost and lonely .
His mental projections about who he was were breaking down and he no longer had an identity .
Bob decided to do the one thing that could always get him to cool down .
A trip up the Sonoma and Mendocino coasts .
The Sonoma coast is a wild and rugged piece of country .
Sparsely populated , spectacularly beautiful , windy , and foggy .
It was his personal paradise and reminded him a lot of growing up in the Oregon coast .
Unlike the better-known Big Sur coastline south of San Francisco , this wonderful place was just rugged , beautiful and rarely had any people .
On weekdays , you could have the whole park or beach to yourself .
He slowly drove there and still did not have any peace .
He stopped at Salt Point state Park-one of his favorite jaunts .
But as he started to hike , he started to scream and cry and lose it completely .
He was having a breakdown .
He was not conscious of his actions and the words that were coming out from him .
They certainly did not seem to be coming from him .
“Fuck them , I will kill every one of them , ” he screamed , while waves and waves of rage and strange emotions bubbled over .
His conscious mind desperately tried to regain control .
Desperately screaming , ‘I am in control” .
But to no avail and he started to sob uncontrollably and alternatively screamed in rage .
Emotions he did not even know he had , started to well up to the surface .
However he had skillfully pushed them under the surface for so long , that he did know what they were and acted like a man possessed by demonic forces .
He screamed , he cried , all the time his conscious persona desperately trying to regain control .
Everything was collapsing within him .
The isolation and splendor and the rugged coast and the waves only served to incite the rage in him , the darkness , and the dark corners of the psyche that he never expressed in his life .
Now there was nothing to hold them back and as the onslaught started , his conscious mind did not stand a chance .
What could it say to hold the tides back ?
He had lost everything and was 52 , not getting younger and faced a dismal future .
But he still waged a furious battle .
Then out of the corner of his eye , he saw two hikers in the distance .
That gave his mind its chance and he regained his sanity and composure .
He then walked over and then started running towards his car that was half a mile away .
He could feel his innards ready to burst through and was too scared .
She softened .
“I’ll tell you what , we only have a few minutes left…” “Really ? ” He perked up .
“How about I ... ” She nudged his hand aside and took its place .
Slow at first , then she picked up the pace as his time grew short .
Ray closed his eyes .
“Don’t stop ... ” She counted in her head : Five , Four , Three .
He finished at Two .
He exhaled , long and slow .
“You’re amazing , baby , you know that ? ” Megan pecked him on the forehead .
“I do.” She scooted to the edge of the bed and dangled her feet over , searching for her slippers .
“It’s time to go now , big guy.” She gave his belly a playful pat .
Ray let out a groan of protest , but hoisted himself up and joined her .
He gathered his clothes and dressed quickly before slinking out of the room and back to whatever life he led outside .
Megan fell back on the bed and lay staring at the ceiling , counting the peaks in the acoustic popcorn finish .
She only had a few minutes to clean the room and prepare for the next lineup .
As she was about to get up , a stabbing pain blossomed deep within her gut .
She winced , and her eyes teared up .
Trying in vain to hold back the inevitable , her hand flew to her mouth .
She barely made it to the bathroom before the contents of her stomach erupted from her mouth in a hot torrent , splattering the rim of the toilet with the half-digested remains of the burrito she had eaten hours earlier .
The nausea rolled through her like a raging tsunami ; hot waves of uncontrollable agony drained her energy , leaving her whimpering on the floor like a young child .
And then it was gone .
Her stomach stopped heaving , her vision cleared , and she felt human again .
It was as if the sickness had happened to someone else .
Megan got to her feet and stared down at the toilet in disgust .
She pulled a towel from under the sink and wiped her mouth .
The room stunk .
Rolling out a handful of toilet paper , she wiped down the edges of the toilet , then flushed the sopping paper and floating clumps of half-digested food to oblivion .
Her throat burned , and her diaphragm ached from all of the heaving .
She went to the sink , washed her hands , and rinsed her mouth , gargling afterward with a shot of peppermint Scope to banish the vile aftertaste .
It didn’t work .
She gargled another shot .
That’s better .
She turned on the bathroom fan to suck out the smell of puke , and then padded back into the bedroom .
The house doorbell chimed .
Damn it .
Already ?
With a tired sigh , Megan stripped the cum-soaked sheets from the bed and stuffed them in the hamper , preparing the room for her next client .
Two Alicia tucked an errant strand of strawberry-blond hair behind her ear and bumped the drawer closed with her hip .
“Seventeen , eighteen , and nineteen is twenty , ” she said , handing a fistful of bills and coins to the frazzled housewife on the other side of the counter .
The woman shot her a grim smile and pushed her cart into the stream of people heading for the store exit .
Alicia checked her watch .
Five minutes until break time .
God I need to get out of here .
She glanced over her shoulder at the next cashier station .
Her best friend Brittany frowned back at her and mouthed the word ‘help ! ’ Four minutes .
Fuck it .
I’m out of here .
She reached up and flipped off her light , signaling a closed lane .
She spun and started walking toward the door .
“Wait !
Miss ! ” Despite her desire to keep walking , her responsible side took over .
She stopped and turned .
“I’m on break now .
One of the other lanes can help you.” She held firm .
“But you were open just a second ago , ” the customer whined , gesturing at the light .
“I’m sorry , ” Alicia said , trying to sound sincere .
She had no intention of sacrificing her precious fifteen minutes for this pushy bitch .
Technically , she was required to take her break in the rear of the store in the kitchen area , but she wanted to spend her time somewhere a little more interesting .
She waved at Dave , the receipt checker , as she breezed past .
He ignored her .
Dork .
Her Subaru was in the far corner of the parking lot , out of sight of the surveillance cameras .
She beeped the car as she approached , and the headlights flashed once .
Once safely ensconced in the car , she popped open the center console , took out her iPod , turned it on , and cranked up the volume .
As an afterthought , she pushed the central door lock , sealing herself in .
Digging around in her backpack , she pulled out a small Ziploc bag .
With dismay , she realized her pot supply was almost exhausted .
The ounce she had purchased only a week before was no more than seeds and a few lonely buds .
Shit .
She broke the seal on the bag with the tip of her finger and inhaled , reveling in the pungent aroma of the remains of her Super Skunk .
She reached into her backpack again and pulled out her bowl , a compact swirled-glass favorite she had had since junior high school .
Someone rapped on her window , and she jumped in surprise .
Cupping her pipe in one hand , she put on her most innocent face and peeked out , prepared for the worst .
Fuck me .
She relaxed .
Brittany stood outside the car grinning like a maniac .
Alicia exhaled a sigh of relief and pressed the unlock button .
Brittany slid in beside her .
“Thanks .
Can you believe the crowds today ? ” With a noncommittal shrug , Alicia locked the doors and retrieved her pot .
She chose the plumpest bud from her bag and crammed it into her bowl .
“Sucks in there.” She lit up .
Brittany eyed her .
“It does .
I couldn’t take it anymore.” Alicia snorted , smoke jetting from her nose in twin streams and passed the pipe .
They spent the next ten minutes smoking and refilling until only shake remained in the baggie , and they had run out of things to talk about .
Alicia laughed to herself .
“What ? ” Brittany asked , tapping the ashes of the bowl into an empty Diet Coke can .
Alicia shook her head .
“It’s nothing.” She checked the clock through heavy-lidded eyes .
Three minutes until her break was over .
Her life was supposed to have started by now .
Instead , here she was , stuck in this shitty Costco in Tempe .
“Are you ready ? ” Brittany asked , shattering Alicia’s reverie .
“Sure .
I guess.” She wasn’t .
She could spend all day out here .
She stuffed her pipe and the empty Ziploc into the bottom of her backpack , tucking them under a spare pair of panties .
“Okay .
Let’s go.” The girls got out of the car , surrounded by a billowing cloud of smoke , and began the long walk across the hot parking lot .
Very twenty-first century for this church to be using the internet to find an administrative assistant .
That impressed me right away .
Even though I didn’t grow up with a computer , I have one now .
I like computers and I love going on the internet .
I like all the things you can find out .
I have a laptop , a Mac , so I can go outside and enjoy the sunshine while I keep in touch with the whole world right in front of my eyes .
It’s amazing .
Pastor Joe sent me email when he read my resume , and asked me to come in for an interview .
It was early April and pouring rain , so I wore a soft , pale gray dress and an almost matching gray sweater and black tights and boots .
I left my hair down so I wouldn’t call attention to my seven earrings in the right ear and four in my left .
I shouldn’t have been concerned .
Pastor Joe is a cool guy .
He met me at the door of the office wearing jeans and a pullover sweater .
His hair is black and he has a mustache and a goatee and doesn’t look at all like a preacher .
To me , he looked more like a card shark .
Not that I’ve ever met one , but that was my first thought .
During the interview it became quite clear how much they needed me .
Joe seemed like a guy who wanted to unburden himself .
He told me a lot of things he probably shouldn’t have , like how people come in for counseling and they might be cheating on their spouses , or stealing from their employers , or gambling , or using drugs on the sly .
One or two might even be considering helping an elderly mother-in-law die – euthanasia , not murder – even though that kind of help is frowned on by the church .
These people are desperate for Pastor Joe to tell them they’re not bad people .
He mentioned it’s hard because he has to keep all this stuff to himself .
He can’t tell his wife the secrets that are spilled out behind the closed door of his office .
It would be a breach of professional ethics .
He said when he was in school , training to be a preacher , no one mentioned that part – the unending weight of all those secrets .
He’s learned to live with it , but he can’t have a member of the church sitting in that office , watching this stream of people and their secrets and their burdens progress in and out the doors , and then have them spreading gossip all over the place .
“Churches are hotbeds of gossip , ” he said .
“Isn’t gossip considered a sin or something ? ” I smiled so he wouldn’t think I was judging them .
He laughed , but it sounded almost a little bitter .
“You’re right , but it’s the hardest thing for people to avoid .
Juicy secrets about others are the lifeblood of some people .
You could think of them as emotional vampires.” I nodded , not really sure where he was going with this .
We were sitting in his office .
Bookshelves covered three entire walls , from the thin brown carpet up to the off-white ceiling .
The were crammed full of books from his high school years , college , and when he was studying at the seminary in New York state .
I asked whether he had any books at home .
He said the study in his house looked more or less the same as this office .
The desk was pine , stained a funny pale yellow color .
It consumed the whole corner of the room .
He sat behind it with his chair pushed back and his ankle balanced on his knee .
The light was dim which made his hair and his beard look darker , ominous .
It almost scared me , being alone in that room with him , silence in the outer office because it was a Monday and no one was anywhere around a church on a Monday .
It was supposed to be his day off , but he came in for this interview because he was so anxious to get someone hired .
Showing your cards like that , telling the candidate that you’re desperate , didn’t seem like a smart move to me , but he didn’t seem to be aware of how that might come across , which made the slightly scared feeling fade to almost nothing .
He was actually a little naïve .
At the time , I thought I could see how that might happen , spending most of your life hanging around a church , not noticing the realities of society .
How wrong I was about that .
After a while , observing the goings on at that church , I realized all the realities of the world were lined up in the pews every Sunday .
He said he’d only been at this church two years .
The youth minister had only been there for ten months .
Before that , he’d been at a church in New York for seventeen years .
He showed me pictures of his four daughters .
Looking at all their long , nearly black hair , just like his , and their dark blue eyes , just like his , the ominous feeling completely disappeared .
I realized it wasn’t something scary at all that I was feeling , but the burden of all those secrets .
Years and years of people telling him things they wouldn’t tell another soul , hoping he would ease their loneliness , shifting their guilt onto him .
That was a lot for one person to carry .
In one corner near a window was a brown plaid sofa and in front of the desk was a stiff , tan armchair , where I sat .
I wondered if all those people coming in with their soul-searing problems and crimes sat in this chair , or on the sofa .
He mentioned these crimes repeatedly .
I started to wonder what kind of people belonged to this church .
“Why did you quit your last job ? ” he said .
“That’s very impulsive , quitting before you have something else lined up.” I tucked my hair behind my ear , forgetting , for a moment , my string of earrings .
But he didn’t look like he even noticed .
“I felt trapped .
Locked inside all the time.” “Then why are you looking for a desk job ? ” I rested my fingertips on my dress , rubbing it softly , hoping he didn’t notice , didn’t think I was weird , rubbing my legs .
But it helped me think , so I could explain myself clearly .
“I like organizing things , and I want to feel like I’m necessary .
At TDP I felt like a tiny wire in a computer closet full of machines and cords and plugs and blinking boxes .
Half the people I worked with were on the other side of the country , or around the world .
I only knew them in email and on the phone .
I hate that .
After awhile , you feel like your life isn’t even real , that it’s just messages and voices without any flesh and blood people.” He nodded at me and his eyes got wider , as if I’d surprised him .
While he was nodding , I considered what my options had been at TDP .
In all likelihood it was only a matter of time before I lost my job anyway .
They were always laying people off , delivering flattened white boxes that the ex-employees had to construct to carry out their stuff .
Rejected children toddling off to their nice cars , probably worrying about how they would make the payments without those lucrative salaries .
That’s why I always lived cheaply and saved everything I could .
People are dispensable to large companies .
Over the few years I worked there , lots of my admin friends got laid off .
The company figured managers could book their own conference rooms , do their own expense reports .
Having an administrative assistant was a luxury that was increasingly reserved for the guys , and the occasional gal , near the very top of the pyramid .
“Everyone here is very much flesh and blood , ” said Joe .
“There isn’t a lot of email .
Parishioners will email information for the newsletter each month , but that’s about it.” I smiled .
It was perfect for me .
I was sure he would see , if he hadn’t already , that I was exactly what Central Avenue Church required – someone who liked people and wasn’t trying to get ahead or take control , but simply wanted to do a good job .
Someone who might loosen things up .
Since Joe seemed like a somewhat tightly wound guy , I figured the rest of the members might take their cue from him .
Trying to be good all the time can be quite exhausting .
That might be why he had that crease at the center of his forehead and a tight look around his lower eyelids .
I leaned back and rested my elbows on the chair arms and crossed my legs .
I swung my foot and waited for more questions .
For several minutes the room was nearly silent .
The fluorescent light hummed like a mosquito , and outside I heard raindrops plopping off the overhang , landing on the leaves of the ivy that surrounded the offices and grew up the side of the hill .
The church is an odd design , with the sanctuary slightly above street level and this whole basement area with a few separate rooms – the reception area and Joe’s office at the front , a conference room , and two other offices built off the sides – and a huge empty space in between .
It’s not a complete basement , there are windows on two sides , but it’s below ground level so you look out at a small incline , and all you can see of people walking past are their feet and lower legs .
That’s what made the room dim – not only the weak lights , but being more or less below ground like that .
Pastor Joe must have made his decision during those silent moments , because he started outlining more about the job .
The hours were shorter than normal , just thirty-five hours a week .
After working close to fifty hours a week in my high tech job , thirty-five hours sounded heavenly , if you don’t mind the lame pun .
You say he was in A.C. today ?
What was he doing there ?
Meet anybody ? ” “I’m not sure .
I think so.” Her voice was nearer to normal .
She was searching the surrounding area with her eyes , up and down the embankment , hoping for some signs of movement , tracks of any kind .
Two sea gulls stirred near a sewer pipe that fed into the bay .
“All I know is he had an appointment to meet someone there .
In one of the casinos , I think .
I don’t know if they met or not.” “What kinda work did he do ? ” “He is a writer.” Alice resented the use of the past tense .
Another policeman came over and spoke to Sgt .
Brown .
They walked together down to the water’s edge .
Alice wanted to follow them , but her feet refused to move .
Cold and fear kept her glued to the spot where she was standing .
What , she wondered , if Nicholas were still in the car in spite of what the sergeant had said ?
Alice couldn’t bear the thought of going down there to the water , approaching the car , and seeing Nicholas inside , trapped like a terrified animal , his face pressed against the glass and turned towards her , with panic and pain written across it .
Suddenly , the snow changed direction .
It had been swirling around her , but it changed its path , moving out towards the bay , leaving an opening down towards the water .
With the police car spotlights fixed on it , the car looked like a large silver whale stuck on a sandbar .
Alice spoke aloud , although in a whisper , as though fearing someone might hear her .
“How do those damned fools know it’s Nicholas’ car ?
The license plate isn’t even visible .
They could be wrong.” Sgt .
Brown walked back up the bank to the road .
When he was close , Alice spoke to him : “How do you know whose car that is ? ” The policeman stared at Alice and seemed not to hear .
He walked on .
Alice reached out and pulled on the policeman’s sleeve .
“I asked you a question , ” she said , raising her voice and surprising herself at her own boldness .
The sergeant pulled away and turned to another policeman who had followed him .
He mumbled something to his partner and smiled .
“Now , what was it that you asked ? ” Sgt .
Brown said to Alice .
She repeated her question .
“Because of the license plate , that’s how.” “But ... but , it’s under water , ” she protested .
“It wasn’t an hour ago when the tide wasn’t in so far , and if that damned tow truck don’t get here soon , the whole thing’ll be under water for sure.” “Look , Sergeant , are you sure ?
I mean , really sure , that Nicholas isn’t in that car ?
How can you be so positive ? ” “No chance .
Nobody’s in that car .
We got a flashlight inside it .
Clean as a whistle .
Ain’t so much as a soda can in that car .
Looks like Woodie coming now.” He walked away from Alice and waved down a battered tow truck as it approached .
Alice watched as Woodie’s truck slowly backed down the slippery bank amid much waving of arms and flashlights and shouts of “More t’left” and “Straight back” and “Whoa , damn it , whoa ! ” She heard the clanging of metal chains as a hitching bar was attached to the side of the car .
The tow truck began its grinding uphill climb from an angle so that the car warbled , slid on the wet sand , rocked sideways several times , and finally righted itself .
Alice was freezing .
She hugged herself tightly .
She was still wondering if Nicholas was wandering about someplace nearby , looking for warmth , looking for her .
She wished desperately that she had someone here with her now , someone to talk to , someone to lean against , and tell how much she was hurting inside .
Once again , there was shouting coming from down below .
The car was slowly sliding up the wet grass as Woodie’s tow truck skidded and lost its traction .
The climb started over again .
“Tell that drunken sonavabitch to put ‘er in low ! ” Sgt .
Brown yelled .
Water was pouring out of the car’s openings , from the doors , the windows , the underbelly .
In the zigzagging yellow lights atop the police cars , Alice got a split-second glimpse of the license plate .
She turned away and buried her face in her hands .
“You a’right ? ” It was Corporal Donnatucci who spoke as he approached .
Alice looked up at him .
It took a second for her to realize that the corporal was speaking to her .
She nodded .
“Get you anything ? ” the young policeman asked .
“Could I make a phone call ?
I’d like someone to come here.” “Sure .
Where ? ” “Ocean City.” “Give me the number .
They’ll call it in from the station.” Alice gave him the telephone number of Philip Rosen .
“Ask him if he can come here .
Tell him Alice Keene needs him.” The corporal hurried over to one of the police cars and slid part way onto the front seat .
He spoke into the radio .
A couple of minutes later , he returned .
“Your friend is on his way .
Any chance that’s Doctor Rosen ? ” “You know him ? ” Alice asked , although she knew she did not care if this policeman knew Philip or not .
“Most people in the city go to him .
My mom thinks he’s the greatest .
I met him last summer in Atlantic City at ... .
In Atlantic City.” Alice eyed the young policeman .
Barely old enough to be on the police force , she thought to herself , but certainly the type to interest Philip .
He was short , much shorter than Philip , muscular , with straight black hair and eyes that were such a dark brown , they almost seemed black .
“They’ll have the car up on the road in a few minutes.” He nodded in the direction of the car which by now was almost level with the road .
Alice did not comment .
“It’s hard , ” Corporal Donnatucci went on .
“I guess it is .
I never lost anyone ... I’ve never been that close , I guess , to anyone to ... .” Alice appreciated what the corporal was trying to do .
“Is there anything else I -- we can do ? ” “You’ve already helped.” Alice tried pathetically to smile .
They stood there , side by side , for several minutes , like two strangers witnessing a tragedy , having nothing left now to share but the silence and the sound of one another’s breathing .
Sgt .
Brown bellowed , “Hey , ‘Tucci , get your ass over here ! ” The corporal sprang to attention .
Under his breath and without looking at her , he addressed Alice .
“You’ll be O.K .
Philip will be here in a few minutes .
Just hang in there.” Alice watched the young policeman run over to the spot where Sgt .
Brown was standing .
She was no longer conscious of the cold , but was mesmerized by the antics of Herman Woods’ Superior Towing Company in the person of its sole proprietor and only employee , the drunken Woodie , maneuvering the silver Oldsmobile onto the road’s surface .
Alice could still remember the day she and Nicholas went to pick out that car and how excited Nicholas had been , deciding upon the model , choosing the “extras , ” picking out the color .
She was still in the past when she heard the sound of breaks screeching .
Philip Rosen’s car came to a halt immediately behind Alice’s .
He jumped out and ran over .
“What hap.. ?
Oh , my God ! ” He saw Nicholas’ car .
He put his arms around her .
He swallowed hard and walked slowly closer .
His hands shook as a part of his mind feared that the animal might leap up and bite him , giving him some nasty disease ( maybe even rabies ) .
He gripped the cold crowbar tightly but was ready to run back to the cab of his truck should it attack .
In the dim red glow of the taillights and the pale predawn it was hard for him to see the body very well .
He reached out to poke the furry lump with the crowbar before remembering the small flashlight tucked inside his coveralls pocket .
Backing up a step , he pulled it out and clicked it on .
The white light shined on the cold black dusty asphalt .
It illuminated a small shockingly bright red stream of blood flowing from the furry lump .
But is it still alive ?
He wondered , following the trail of blood with the beam of light until it showed a mass of glistening pink intestines and fur .
He felt his stomach bucking as his breakfast shot out his mouth .
His whole body shuddered and shook as he vomited uncontrollably for several agonizing seconds .
He turned off the flashlight while continuing to lose his breakfast .
Some things , like vomiting , are best done in darkness .
At least it 's not as bad as throwing up drunk , he thought .
Before adopting his profession as a septic tank drainer , Josey briefly attended a university and knew all too well the unpleasantness associated with throwing up while drunk .
A Toga party hosted by the football boosters was both the first and last time he 'd ever gotten seriously drunk .
He spent the afternoon at practice and by the time the coach let the team go the party was already in full swing .
Most of the players went straight to the festivities , but the smart ones ate something before they began drinking .
Josey had not been one of the smart ones .
As a result of being raised in a strict Southern Baptist family , he was denied an education in alcohol that most of his Methodist friends were privy to .
When he was a teenager , a big time with alcohol was limited to occasionally drinking a mixture of cough syrup and ginger ale .
His friends called the vile tasting concoction a Dr. Shirley Temple .
It was a nasty excuse for a cocktail , but on the plus side he never minded being home sick with a cold when he was a kid .
At the toga party he wore a large , mostly white , bed sheet with a few stains- the origins of which were best not considered .
Josey made up for a 'wasted ' nonalcoholic childhood and tried a little bit of everything .
The football boosters set up tables with nearly every kind of liquor he could imagine and not a single cough syrup bottle was in sight .
It was paradise .
A large mug of white wine was followed by a few shots of tequila , vodka , scotch , and gin , plus several plastic cups of beer from a keg were the last things he vaguely recalled about that night .
It wasn’t until several hours later that he realized drinking vast quantities of different types of alcohol on an empty stomach was not a particularly good idea .
The next day , his friend Al Thompson showed him a video of his exploits from the night before that he 'd uploaded to the Internet .
Josey did n't remember standing on a table shouting that he was Zeus , but the video did n't lie .
The vivid color quality was quite impressive as it showed him projectile vomiting on various football booster businessmen ( most of whom were wearing very expensive looking suits ) that also attended the toga party .
Leaning against the rear of the truck 's tank , he finished losing his breakfast and then wiped his face with a handkerchief .
He used the long crowbar to push the dead animal 's carcass off to the side of the road before walking unsteadily back to the truck cab .
Breathing hard and still trembling , he replaced the crowbar and climbed inside .
At least the day can’t get much worse than this , he sincerely hoped .
After swishing the remaining coffee around in his mouth he spit it back in the cup and poured the foulness out the window .
He restarted the engine and drove away trying to think of something , anything , other than the last few minutes .
”I tried to miss it .
I really did , ” he mumbled , as he drove past a closed convenience store and turned off the empty country highway onto a dirt road .
The truck rumbled past an old wooden sign rotted with decades of neglect .
It had partly fallen over and the words Albuquerque Springs Trailer Park were painted on it .
The words were faded and almost impossible to read at a casual glance .
In fact , it had taken Josey three attempts before he finally discovered that 's where the trailer park road was the first time he came for a pickup .
After almost two miles , he downshifted and began the steep run into the canyon .
Some people referred to it as a valley , but to him it always seemed more like a miniature Grand Canyon .
From on top of the valley the first rays of the sun started to peek over the landscape .
The sunlight reflected off the trailers below and he wondered how the place managed to stay in business at all .
At the bottom of the valley , the park was large enough to accommodate several hundred mobile homes .
Decades earlier there used to be that many , but that was before the new interstate made the old dusty highway he’d spent the last thirty minutes navigating nearly deserted .
Albuquerque Springs Trailer Park was one of the saddest looking places Josey ever visited .
He tried to remember , Are there ten or eleven trailers with residents left ?
Eight or nine trailers were full of illegal immigrants .
They came from everywhere .
There were people living there from all over South and Central America as well as Mexico .
They lived together and saved money to send home to their families .
One of the more artistic residents even made a large plywood sign , painted red , white , and green , and installed it on top of the first trailer .
The sign read Welcome to NEW New Mexico .
Josey 's throat tightened when another jackrabbit leaped across the steep road ahead and felt that deep heavy uneasy pain in his stomach again .
Who else was still down in the valley ?
He wondered and reached for another piece of gum .
He chewed at the bitter tasting stuff wishing he could smoke , but knew it was dangerous in a truck carrying as much natural methane as his did .
Glancing at the old tattered piece of paper someone had thoughtfully taped to the dashboard that had the words NO SMOKING !
he shot it the birdie finger and considered those few people that still lived down in the valley .
There was an elderly man who was probably retired .
Josey spotted him using a cane while walking a poodle near a bright shiny silver 1960 's era trailer that had an American flag on a pole out front .
The old man had seemed nice enough as they exchanged waves .
And then there was Mrs. Remlap .
Josey shuddered at the thought of her .
She was old , mean , ugly , and just plain rude .
She always had a snide comment or sarcastic backhanded compliment for him .
He trembled after remembering he had to see her this morning to pick up a payment for draining the park 's septic tank .
Her house was hard to miss .
It sat on the far side of the valley .
It was a big , ancient , two story , termite infested , somewhat dilapidated looking structure .
It always reminded him of a movie he could n't remember the name of with the Bates Motel and some weird guy who dressed in his dead mom 's clothes .
The Remlap house was situated on a little bluff .
Thirty or forty years earlier it may have seemed like a mansion , lording over its mobile home residents .
But that early morning as he stared at the old house it was at best a depressing sight , at worst kind of frightening .
For an empty trailer park it sure is full of junk , Josey thought , looking at the piles of junk stretching across the valley floor .
There were shopping carts ( some full of bits of metal that had probably been salvaged or stolen ) , stacks of recycled crumbly looking cinder blocks , bicycles , rusty barrels , an old Yugo car with a flame paint job along its sides , and just plain old trash scattered everywhere .
There were also more than a few abandoned trailers , rusting cars , or pieces of cars , and lots of broken appliances .
In many ways the whole trailer park looked more like a junkyard than a place people actually lived .
He finally noticed the birds while driving the last switch back on the steep road leading into the valley .
Never before had he seen so many .
The closest trailers , the ones the illegal immigrants used , were surrounded by thousands of the birds .
There are some big ones too , he realized while staring at a giant buzzard or vulture sitting atop the nearest trailer .
( He wasn’t sure which kind it was for sure , but thought it must have had a five foot wingspan ) Slowing to enter the trailer park gate , the truck passed between two old cars nearly blocking the road ahead .
He wondered briefly if someone had crashed them together .
One was a dark green station wagon , the other a big cargo van and both were older vehicles with beer cans and tequila bottles on the dashboard and scattered around them .
The van had part of a broken utility pole leaning on its badly dented roof .
He stepped on the gas pedal when a man started to get out of the station wagon .
Josey did n't want to talk to a drunk first thing in the morning or really any other time of the day for that matter .
The truck had gone a few hundred yards when he glanced in the rear view mirror and saw behind him several other men standing around the wrecked cars .
I sure hope they do n't want a ride into town .
After another minute he pulled the truck into the laundry building parking lot and flipped on the generator switch for the pumps .
He slid on his thick dirty pair of leather work gloves .
Climbing out , he reached for the thick smelly rubber hose and dragged it to the septic tank cap near the dilapidated laundry building .
The roof had fallen in from disrepair long ago and Josey only shook his head as he worked to hook up the hose connections .
Cold metal dug into her neck .
The man leaned closer , his dark eyes burning into hers .
She gasped in shock as his stringy black hair brushed against her face .
It was him .
The man grinned , showing her brown , stained teeth .
“Yes , it’s me .
The one you were supposed to write about , ” he hissed as he dug the knife deeper into her flesh .
“You couldn’t let me have my moment of fame , could you ? ” Tiffany cried out as he sliced into her .
A ribbon of blood flowed down her throat .
“Don’t do this , ” she pleaded .
“Please , I’m sorry .
I’ll write your story.” The man laughed , the sound completely devoid of humor .
“It’s too late .
You had your chance .
I gave you the inspiration , all you had to do was write the words.” He looked at her , anger flaring in his eyes .
“We could have been famous.” “No , ” she begged as she squirmed against him .
“Please , don’t hurt me.” “It’s all the purpose you have left , ” he told her as he jerked the knife across her neck .
Her blood flowed freely , covering his hand .
He looked at the red liquid as her life ebbed away .
It seemed like such a waste .
“Why couldn’t you just write the damn story ? ” You Never Know What You’ll Find The car’s tires crunched in the gravel as he pulled over and stopped .
Looking over , Dexter snatched the paper from his girlfriend’s fingers .
“Come on , Ash .
We couldn’t have covered them all.” She shrugged .
“We did , Dex .
The only one left is on the outskirts of town.” Dexter lifted his sunglasses and glanced down at the newspaper in his hands .
They had indeed covered every single garage sale .
He looked over at Ash and raised his eyebrow .
“Well , what do you think ?
Is it worth it ? ” “We’ve come this far.” With a sigh , he glanced back at the road .
“Might as well cover them all.” She smiled brightly as her boyfriend pulled back onto the road .
“I do love the thrill of the hunt .
You never know what you’re going to find.” Dexter grinned .
“I know , Ash .
What I can’t figure out is how you got me hooked on them .
It’s not like I need any more useless junk lying around.” She playfully slapped his shoulder as he drove .
“It’s not all useless junk , Dex.” He smirked slightly as he glanced at her .
“So you say.” Silence slipped around them as the car headed outside of town .
Following the directions in the paper , they soon found themselves on a dirt road in the middle of nowhere .
“Are you sure this is the right road ? ” Dexter asked as he drove slowly , glancing at the trees lining both sides of the car .
“There doesn’t seem to be anything out here.” Ash glanced back down at the paper in her hand .
“The add says 245 West Cooper Ave .
This is West Cooper Ave.” “Well , we haven’t seen one single house yet , Ash.” He looked at her and shrugged .
“Maybe they got the address wrong ? ” She glanced up at him .
“Why would they get their own address wrong ? ” “I don’t know , ” he said with a frown .
“But there’s nothing out here.” “Wait , ” she spoke suddenly , pointing at something .
“Is that a driveway ? ” Dex stopped the car and leaned forward , staring at the break in the trees next to the car .
“It might be.” “Yeah , look .
There’s some balloons.” She looked over at him .
“This is the place.” He thought for a moment .
“Are you sure ? ” “Yes , this is the place.” “Okay , ” he said as he turned down the driveway .
They came to an old two-story farmhouse .
Rows of tables lined the long driveway in front of the garage .
Stuff was everywhere .
Piles of clothes , stacks of books , and various odds and ends covered the tables everywhere they looked .
It was a garage sale addict’s dream .
Dexter killed the engine and looked over at his girlfriend .
“Well , you must be in heaven.” He got out of the car and glanced back .
“Are you coming ? ” Ash got out of the car slowly , looking around .
“Where is everyone ? ” He glanced at the space around them , noticing the lack of life and shrugged .
“They’re all inside .
They probably don’t get a lot of people out here.” She glanced up at the house .
“I guess.” “What ?
You’re not scared are you ? ” She frowned as she walked past him , towards the tables .
“Knock it off , Dex.” He laughed as he watched her glance at the things on the table in front of her .
“Poor little Ash is terrified of a garage sale .
I’d never thought I’d see the day.” “Shut up , Dexter.” “Oh , come on , baby , ” he said , walking over to her .
“I was just teasing.” He kissed her cheek softly .
She kept quiet but couldn’t keep the grin from tugging at the corners of her lips .
“That’s my girl.” They walked around the tables in silence , examining the wares for sale .
Ash was just reaching out for a pink dog figurine , when the door to the garage opened and a man and woman stepped out .
The woman smiled at them .
“Hello.” Ash returned the smile .
“Hi.” The man glanced over at Dexter .
“How y’all doing today ?
Is there anything in particular you’re looking for ? ” He shook his head .
“Not really.” He glanced over at Ash .
“My girl just likes to look for everything.” The man nodded .
“I can understand that .
That’s how we ended up with all of this stuff in the first place.” “I know the feeling .
You should see our place.” Ash frowned .
“I’m not that bad.” The woman stepped forward .
“Don’t let them upset you , sugar .
That’s just the way men think.” The man laughed .
“That is the way men think , darlin’ .
I didn’t mean anything by it.” He looked back over at Dexter .
“Hey , I have several cars out back for sale if you’re interested.” He shook his head .
“No , I can’t say that I am .
I really don’t need another car.” “No problem .
Just thought I should ask.” The woman watched Ash as she looked at the stuff on the tables .
“We have more stuff inside .
There’s sure to be something in there that you can’t live without.” Ash glanced over at Dexter , who shrugged .
“It’s up to you , baby , ” he called over to her .
“But you might as well see everything while we’re here.” “Well then , come on in , ” the man said and headed back into the garage .
She looked over at the woman , who smiled before stepping in after the man , before frowning at her boyfriend as he approached her .
“They’re a little weird.” He nodded as he slipped his hand into hers .
“Yeah , a little , ” he said and glanced at the garage .
“I don’t think we have anything to worry about though.” She hesitated a moment longer and then smiled sheepishly .
“I know .
I’m being silly .
They closed to keep victims in .
In one silent moment nightfall covered Grystiawa .
The soulletting of Morpheus Rex followed within a nanosecond .
The flesh between his thighs began to weld itself together , the skin on his legs crawling in rippling sheets like beached manta rays , until all beneath his twin penises was interwoven and had transformed into the tail of a gargantuan serpent .
Dark , iridescent scales and diamondback patterns replaced the tattoos that had adorned his legs .
Like a male lamia he hissed and slithered , a demon from the waist up , a serpent from the waist down .
The change was one of inner metamorphosis as well , a psychic transmutation of self , a nocturnal enlightenment , a spiritual vivisection , a soul transplant .
As his brain slowly filled with blood like a living sponge , the bestial psyche of Morpheus Rex was conquered by the demonic psyche of the Oneirophage .
Oestrus became sadomasochism ; torture and suffering became meditation .
Hunger and thirst became vampiric cravings for blood , flesh , and dreams ; shamanic cravings for drugs , enlightenment , and power .
Totemic religion was conquered by devil worship .
Psychedelic synesthesias of blood assailed him from every possible sensory organ .
The thrill of the hunt mutated into perversions of evil , fetishes for murder and mass destruction , a lust for apocalypse and eternal damnation .
Death was revealed as the ultimate reality , the meaning of life , the raison d'etre .
The entire universe was his hunting grounds , and total genocide was vital to his survival .
The nocturnal transformation was complete .
Carnivorous beast had evolved into genocidal demon .
Morpheus Rex had metamorphosed into the Oneirophage .
The familiar , black enlightenments known only by highly evolved demons , powerful deities , and almighty Satan himself permeated his mind , body , and soul once more .
The last changes were minor , final adaptations of the flesh to the spirit 's metamorphosis .
Externally , his prismatic eyes began to glow from within , rather than reflecting and refracting light .
Heat-vision gave way to night-vision and dream-vision .
Internally , the cravings began .
Like a vampire 's bloodlust , dreams were the only substance that could sustain his nocturnal flesh and evil soul .
He craved dreams , needed dreams , was addicted to dreams like a drug .
His brain was starved , throbbing with stabbing hunger pangs , so many hunger pangs that they left him room for only one thought at a time , a single mantra that repeated itself , over and over , inside his pain-wracked mind : I would die for dreams .
Lounging on his vast , rose-colored bed , surrounded by bloodstains and blankets , the Oneirophage watched the moonrise through the stained-glass window which comprised the western wall of his bedchamber .
With eyes like flaming prisms the Oneirophage gazed upon the shadowy , blood-colored wastelands of his realm .
Grystiawa was dying in stages , piece by piece , a little more with each victim the Oneirophage killed .
The bloodletting sunset was the signal of temporary safety for those few who had escaped the Oneirophage 's clutches thus far , those still roaming the crimson moors outside his castle .
It was the signal of doom for those within , who stood chained together against the curved wall facing the Oneirophage 's bed .
Their final day had ended .
Their final night had commenced .
Just as the Oneirophage preferred the more powerful dreams of living organisms , he knew also that appendages could become repositories and escape routes for dreams .
Thus , his feast had to be properly prepared .
So , as he did every night , the Oneirophage herded the manacled victims toward the Amputator , the gargantuan , imposing limbing machine in the southern wing of the bedchamber .
Fourteen prey , Morpheus Rex had captured for him .
Fourteen skulls worth of dreams , he would eat and drink this night .
With death 's own gaze the prism-eyed demon arranged his sacrifices outside the mechanical jaws of the Amputator .
The prisoners were bolted in iron collars by abdomen and throat to a lengthy , gem-encrusted surgical table , upon which they lay supine and prostrated .
The long adamantium chains that had bound them to the floor , ceiling , walls , and each other were now manacled to hooks on either side of the limbing machine 's innards .
The chains held their captives tautly spread-eagled , arms and legs extended like living pentagrams , horizontally crucified .
The fourteen pentagrams of flesh were bound in a straight line upon the elongated , jeweled , bloodstained platform , which now looked eerily like the feasting tables in the dining halls of cannibal emperors .
The Oneirophage slithered to the giant wheel protruding from the side of the Amputator .
He it and began to slowly turn , grinding the gears of the mutilation machine .
The surgical table bearing the captives lurched and began to move inexorably into the bowels of the Amputator .
Four blades fell simultaneously , followed immediately by the wet thud of four severed limbs striking the floor .
Screams tore the night air as a second body was dragged beneath the guillotines .
The first was conveyed deeper into the Amputator , past two walls of open flames that cauterized the wounds at shoulders and hips , preserving both life and dreams , before depositing the limbless prey in an obsidian cage .
The Oneirophage observed the severing mechanisms of the gruesome device as he operated it .
The sight of naked flesh , the sounds of terrified screams , and the smell of blood made the Oneirophage 's dream-cravings even more intense .
His prismatic eyes gleamed with lust , his three forked tongues licked his dripping fangs and rainbow lips .
His chiseled muscles stood out against his skin while he toiled , bringing the runes and images of the tattoos which covered his entire body to life .
Flames flickered , weapons flashed , zodiacs rotated and orbited upon his painted flesh like sentient artwork .
Death 's heads and demon faces smiled and snarled , serpents and beasts hunted and flew , incubi and succubi copulated and battled .
A thousand images writhed as the sinews beneath them moved , tinged with the blood the Oneirophage was sweating as he operated the mechanism .
Crimson perspiration soaked his long , brown , prism-plaited hair and beard , and ran down his body as his cravings deepened and his withdrawals intensified .
One by one the victims were limbed , cauterized , and collected .
After mere minutes , the ceremony was complete .
The Oneirophage began to gather up his limbed prey , gripping handfuls of hair , or fistfuls of genitals , and tossing the amputees upon his roseate , gore-stained blankets in a pile of flesh .
The Oneirophage grabbed the Umbilicus , a hollow , strawlike sorcerer 's wand capable of infinite permutations and surgical functions .
Holding the Umbilicus in one manicured hand , each long fingernail painted with various sigils and mandalas , he observed the victims writhing on his bed , their still-sizzling armholes and legholes sticking to the blankets and leaking black pus .
He leaned over a pale green female , her naked , limbless torso twitching like a large invertebrate , her breasts swinging back and forth as she wormed and writhed .
He placed the straw between her emerald lips and drank deeply , sucking dreams of romance through her mouth and into his , down his throat , and into his bloodstream .
Dreams of succubus lips and Satanic kisses blossomed in his brain , of vaginas and oubliettes opening and closing like mouths .
The Oneirophage licked his rainbow lips with each of his three forked tongues and sighed .
He placed the straw into the ear of a blue-skinned male and sucked again .
Dreams of comets shooting up from Hell hit him in the teeth and tongues , slammed into his heart and taking him deeper into trance .
Switching the Umbilicus into a triple-curled , six-pronged straw , he cleaned the blood from around the mouth and ears of the two dream-robbed husks , vacuuming up any remnants of dreams they might carry , and then placed two of the tube 's ends in the eyes of a yellow-skinned male .
Dreams of Satan came bubbling ; he watched them travel up the straw with drugged fascination .
He dreamed that he was Satan , swimming in an ocean of blood , amidst crimson mermaids whom he made love to , swimming to a heart the size of a planet .
Fascinated , he placed the straw in the yellow-skinned male 's nostrils , hoping to tap these archetypes again .
The ocean of blood returned , he dreamt he was Satan , the red mermaids beckoned , and then the dream faded and was no more .
Allowing the dreams to flow , for they could become lethal if he did not , the Oneirophage turned his attentions downward .
He placed the now quadruple-twisted Umbilicus into a pink-skinned virgin 's vagina .
Pretending it was Mother Chaos , he inhaled , drawing in sexual fantasies and sadomasochistic nightmares .
The Oneirophage dreamt that his twin penises were releasing pink , perfumed semen .
Not yet satisfied , he placed the straw at the tip of a purple-scaled incubus ' penis , bringing forward through the urethra first dreams , then sperm , then blood , a mixture which influenced the Oneirophage 's dreams toward the coming of the Jh'a'vyraa .
Feeling as if his mind 's eye had become infinitely more focused , the Oneirophage dreamt of becoming the Jh'a'vyraa , of attaining that state of bliss beyond rebirth , where Satan could not terrify him with excruciating nightmares , fear injections , venereal paranoias , primal instincts , and suicidal tendencies .
As the Jh'a'vyraa , he would torture himself eternally , masturbate eternally , and dream eternally .
The euphoric dark enlightenments of pain , sex , and evil would be forever bound to his soul .
For hours , the Oneirophage drained the limbed bodies of their dreams , imbibing most of their blood , and eating some of their flesh and organs as well .
His final dream-visions were of the Necrodelic , his dark soulmate , his nemesis , whom he must soon fight to the death .
He observed the flesh-smoker 's methods of battle , his strengths , his weaknesses .
He dreamed of scalping the Necrodelic , creating a bloody oracle upon his glistening , gory skull .
He peered through the crown of the Necrodelic 's head and watched the dreams flow through his black brain .
The dreams were memories of past slaughters and prophecies of massacres yet to come , and the Oneirophage saw that the Necrodelic received his sorcerous powers from death .
Dreams of Mother Chaos filled the scalped-skull oracle now , and the Oneirophage saw that she was the Necrodelic 's soulmate .
Mesmerized by their second dream encounter of the night , the Oneirophage drifted once more into a concatenation of erotic fantasies , a sexual reverie that bore him past the threshold of midnight and into deeper slumber .
As sperm , blood , and venom fountained from his two erect penises , splattering his unconscious body in the name of the Mistress of Entropy , the Oneirophage 's astral body arose from the sanguinary , corpse-laden covers and projected into the night .
For a time he soared over the red and black wastelands of Grystiawa in his nightly travels , scouting the living and haunting the newly dead , escorting them downward , ever downward , to the boundaries of Hell .
He observed and dreamt of those whom he would stalk the following day , singling out the weak , the sick , and the old , forming battle-strategies for the coming dawn , when he would once again assume the role of the hunter and the beast , the Dreaming Predator , Morpheus Rex .
He dreamt also that , in the near future , he became the hunted .
His brain turgid with dreams , the Oneirophage slept , his wandering soul soaring wistfully through realms of ephemera and phantasmagoria .
Above Grystiawa , Tyterviax shone on .
Beyond the crimson sun space continued to grow blacker and blacker , with death and with evil , as the eons passed .
Elsewhere , somewhere , or perhaps nowhere , beyond everything Satan had ever created , salvation awaited the conqueror of the universe , for whosoever survived armageddon , whomever became the last entity or pair of soulmates left alive at the end of time , would become the Jh'a'vyraa , the Messiah of Death , and attain infinite peace .
Every other soul in existence would rot in Hell , for all eternity .
Of this , the Oneirophage dreamt until waking .
* The crimson dawn was like surgery , the red sun Tyterviax a bleeding tumor cut from the flesh of night .
Obviously , the mailman had dropped it .
He was really a negligent person who clearly was n't performing to the fine standards of the US Postal Service .
Tossing the junk mail into the garbage can as he made his way to the back steps that led up on the deck he had built more than twenty five years ago , he pulled his keys out of his pocket and inserted one into the lock .
Glancing at the security camera 's on the wall by the door he wondered if his stomach was really as bulging as the cameras portrayed it to be .
Does n't matter , he said to Harvey .
I 'm not fat or overweight at all .
I 'm just an average sixty four year old male who has a sick wife .
The work and worry has taken care of the excess weight and I do n't have to worry about it .
That is a funny way to lose weight though .
Starving myself because I do n't have time to eat right is a painful way to loose weight , I must admit although it does work quite well .
Inside , he went through the same routine he 'd practiced for the last four years .
The stairway was dark and so was the kitchen .
He listened to see if he could hear her coughing or maybe hear the sound of the television .
For a reason he never understood , unless she was listening for someone to knock on the back door , she kept the volume low on the television .
Most of the time he could n't hear it when he was sitting within ten feet of it .
He loved her dearly , no matter what she did .
If she spent all the money they had , which she never had actually done , he still would fuss a little and then forgive her .
Turning the kitchen light on , he put his lunch box on the counter and walked into the bedroom .
She was n't in bed .
His heart jumped when he realized that the television was not on in the living room .
Where was she ?
His cataracts prohibited him from seeing well .
Hell , he was mighty lucky just to be able to drive to work , especially in the dark .
Normally , she would be in the living room , sitting on the couch watching television , in the bathroom throwing up or in bed coughing .
The chemo treatments she 'd been taking for over three years now had taken its toll on her , bless her heart .
She was one heck of a fighter and he admired her for that .
The ovarian cancer had moved into her stomach and the walls of her stomach .
Her doctors had told her that she would not live for a couple of years , but so far , she had proven them wrong .
She had lived almost four years , to date .
Bless her soul , she was a fighter with a zeal that anyone could appreciate .
Standing in the living room he looked at the couch and then searched the bedroom with his eyes .
Something was wrong here .
Something was different and things were n't as they should be .
Was he crazy ?
Was his diabetes acting up again ?
Perhaps he was getting Alzheimer 's just like Mr. Jenkins down the street .
He wandered all over the neighborhood and sometimes forgot where home was .
Elton had that feeling now as if he did n't belong here and that this was n't really his home .
He felt alone .
Everything was unfamiliar and for a few moments he thought he was in the wrong house .
What was wrong ?
What made him feel that he 'd been here before and that he did n't belong ?
Was he truly in his own home and just did n't recognize it ?
The couch was n't the same one Sheri always sat on and the brass bed in the living room was gone .
In place of the old 40 inch television Sheri had always watched was a sixty inch Sony complete with an extravagant sound system .
The old coffee table was not in its usual place .
It had the Sony flat screen television sitting on it .
Even the paint on the walls was new and different .
New carpets covered the floors and the curtains had been changed .
Even Sheri was gone .
Where was she ?
Memories flooded his mind like the Mississippi River flooding rich farmlands .
When she went to bed she usually coughed .
That led to more coughing and then the terrible bouts of vomiting .
She spent more time in the bathroom than she did in bed .
The cancer was getting worse , and he knew it , because she could barely keep anything at all on her stomach .
He wondered how much longer she had to live and tears filled his eyes .
Elton sat down on the couch and put his head in his hands .
He realized the truth just as tears flowed from his eyes and searing pain flooded through every cell in his body .
He knew the truth now .
He knew the terrible truth that he could never accept unless he was home .
Sheri died a year ago on August 18th , 2010 .
The other terrible truth was that today was August 18th , 2011 .
Sheri had been dead a year today .
He was a broken soul lost in the past and with no future .
Grief was a monster that gave you nothing and took everything leaving an empty heart where love had dwelled .
It was n't the diabetes that plagued him and it was n't Alzheimer 's sneaking up on him , it was just the stress of everything that had happened to them piling up on him like a deluge of hail from the sky .
It was the same stress he had felt for the last four or five years .
Every morning of each new day he laid there for a long time trying to remember everything before he even put his foot on the floor .
He had to convince himself that terrible things had happened before he could even begin a new day .
However , sometimes , it was too much for him and he lapsed into a stupor where he thought that nothing had happened , that Sheri was still here with him and that everything was going to be all right .
It never was all right since she died .
And , it would never be the same again .
Mixing reality with fantasy was a deadly combination like mixing sulfur , charcoal and potassium nitrate to make gunpowder , and Elton knew that as well as he knew that he was running from the truth every chance he got .
He had known she was dead except he just could n't get it straight in his mind that she was really gone .
It was n't something that was easy to accept .
He could never forget her , no way .
Her death was something he was not willing to accept and that was that .
Tonight was like most other nights when he came home from work and faced the harsh reality .
By midnight he 'd relived their lives since the day they got married in 1982 .
That was a lot of information to cram into anyone 's mind , much less an aging senior citizen who was already under enough stress to send him plummeting into virtual insanity .
Elton was a lost explorer traveling through a land where few had been before and where few wanted to go .
Death was the only master and it was heartless and cared nothing for its victims .
Grief took all the love you once had and mailed it to another universe in a black envelope without a stamp on it .
Some people managed to keep the love they had so carefully grown and nurtured locked safely away in their hearts and minds after their loved one was gone .
Elton had managed to keep his love for Sheri fresh and clean like a spring rain , so far .
He had vowed that he would never forget her and he 'd never get married again .
The house was dark even with the light in the living room on and the table lamp on the stand by the bedroom door burning like a dim candle in a dark desert .
This fact brought visions of Sheri sitting in front of the television with only the light in the living room on .
What misery she must have suffered in those days before her unfortunate demise , he conjectured before finally getting up from the couch and changed his clothes .
He loathed the uniform he wore because he had wore it so much when she was living .
It was the job that had taken him away from her most of all .
The security company he worked for was n't human oriented .
For every day he had to miss to take care of her they made him work a make-up day .
They were to blame for some of his anxiety .
That was for sure .
When he was back into his civilian attire againa green polio shirt and jeanshe walked through the darkened room and stepped out into cool August air .
It had n't rained for two months , just like it had n't rained during the time she was the sickest .
The air had been dry , the earth parched and the sky was always cloudless .
Large chest , medium waist .
Her legs were still painful , though it was more a dull ache now .
She thought they were long but she was n't sure .
`` Quite tall , '' she muttered .
She still could n't picture what she looked like .
Her hair was dry with dust and matted with blood , and she could n't remember what colour it was .
`` What day is it ?
What year ? ''
she asked herself aloud .
Hearing her voice helped her concentrate .
`` What accent am I speaking in ?
Where am I from ? ''
`` Ten , ten , ten , '' she said suddenly .
`` October tenth , two thousand and ten .
That must be the date , today 's date .
Or maybe a date important to me . ''
She could see her hands suddenly , inputting the date into a computer .
Slim fingers .
Today 's date , she thought .
`` Seven , seven , eighty-two , '' she said after a moment .
My date of birth , she thought , something told her she was right .
`` I 'm twenty eight , '' she said aloud , gravity in her voice , as if it would unlock the puzzle and set her free .
Nothing happened .
I 'm getting somewhere , she thought .
If I can just work out who I am and why I 'm here , maybe I can get out of here .
She knew that she could n't afford to go to sleep .
Knew that could mean never waking up again .
She tried to focus on the image of herself tapping away on the computer keys , remember what data apart from the date she was inputting .
Am I at work , she wondered , was there an accident ?
A terrorist attack maybe ?
There must be someone looking for me !
`` Help ! ''
she shouted , her throat raspy and sore .
No response , no sound , nothing .
Just dark emptiness .
`` Six-o-six , '' she said aloud then .
A train , a train home ?
What route ?
What line ?
Victoria ?
`` I 'm in London , '' she said , nodding to herself .
`` London , '' she repeated .
It felt good , to know where she was .
The tube .
Some kind of accident , I 'm buried in a tunnel .
They will come to dig me out .
Why do n't I have a mobile phone ?
She wondered .
She had nothing but the clothes on her back .
No gadgets , no handbag , no purse or wallet .
Where is everyone else ?
If I was on the train it must have been crowded .
There must have been other people .
They ca n't all be dead , surely ?
Panic gripped her as she started to fear being given up on , her breathing became fast and shallow and she felt her eyes grow watery again .
Ca n't cry , or I 'll get dehydrated , she told herself as she brought her breathing under control , forced herself to calm down .
I have to figure out how to get the hell out of here , never mind who I am , that can come later in a nice clean hospital bed with a shrink or whatever .
She took a few slow , deep breaths and leaned forward as far as she could until the pain was too much to bear .
Holding her breath helped a little .
Whatever was on her legs was metallic and very heavy .
She thought they were probably broken ; she had some feeling in them but could n't manage to move her toes .
A memory came back to her of having broken her leg at school ; before being taken to casualty the teacher had taken off her shoe and sock and asked her to wiggle her toe .
She could hear the teacher in her mind , speaking her name , but could n't make out the word .
`` Never mind that , '' she muttered to herself .
`` First things first . ''
She thought that maybe it was a part of the train carriage that was on her legs .
It was heavy and though her legs were probably broken she could n't feel any wounds in them , no jagged shards poking out .
She summoned up her strength and heaved , but she could n't get the right angle , could n't manage to shift it even the tiniest bit .
Spots appeared before her eyes as she exerted herself , and when they cleared as she took slow , deep breaths again she realised the air was clearing , there was a light in the distance somewhere .
`` Here !
Please , help !
I 'm trapped ! ''
she called as loudly as she could manage , which was n't as loudly as she would have liked .
There was no response , no movement .
No sound .
Just a light in the tunnel , she thought .
She tried lifting again , then using her hands to tug at her legs but she could n't get anywhere .
The silence disturbed her more with every minute that passed .
The light down the tunnel blinked a few times , then went off .
Complete darkness again .
There were n't any animals either , she realised .
There should be rats or something , surely , in the tunnels ?
There was nothing .
Just her .
A wave of nausea came over her again as blood trickled down her throat from the back of her nostrils , and she gagged .
Blood dribbled down her nose as well now , and she wiped it away with her sleeve .
It too , was covered in dust .
She squirmed around some more , feeling for something that might be able to help her .
A wedge of metal lay behind her head and she dragged it over her , little by little , and jammed it under the other piece , then rolled onto her side to push down on it with the weight of her body .
She felt the pressure on her legs give way a little and once again reached for them with her hands , pulling them out .
This time , she managed .
Which way ?
She wondered as she glanced around her .
She was n't even certain anymore which direction the light had been in ; the darkness was disorienting .
She lay back down , her legs on top of the sheet of metal now rather than beneath it , to get her bearings .
She started to crawl in the direction of the light , dragging her legs .
She was definitely in a tunnel , she thought as she made her way along a solid wall .
It suddenly gave way , prodding with her hands she realised she 'd reached a flight of stairs .
She hauled herself up a couple , found it excruciatingly difficult .
Her legs were a dead weight behind her .
They had to be at the apartment across the hall , Mrs. Goldman’s .
Her husband had passed away a few months earlier .
Gina had started bringing Ben over to keep her company .
She loved Ben and he loved eating her cookies — a perfect match .
Brent slipped on some sweatpants , then headed across the hall and knocked on the door .
The lights in the hall were out , save for four emergency lights spaced every five doors along the ceiling .
Mrs. Goldman always took forever to answer the door .
Brent suspected she was going deaf , even though she had a keen ear for neighborhood gossip .
He knocked louder .
Still , no answer .
Mrs. Goldman never went anywhere .
Ever .
Her only other family was her worthless son , Peter , who never visited .
The few times Gina had invited her to the store or for a nice afternoon lunch , Mrs. Goldman declined .
She didn’t care much for the city .
Was only there because her husband loved it .
Now he was gone , and she was happy to spend her days watching TV , reading her mysteries , and playing bridge with some of the other ladies twice a week .
“Mrs .
Goldman , ” Brent called , “Are you there ? ” Nothing .
Weird .
Brent didn’t know the other neighbors on his floor , but Gina had recently become friends with a young mother a few doors down .
Maybe they went there , Brent figured .
He walked toward the end of the hall , but couldn’t remember if the woman lived in number 437 or 439 .
He tried knocking on 437 first .
No answer .
He tried a couple more times , then went to 439 .
No response .
What the hell ?
People were always home , or at least it seemed that way .
Brent was never able to sleep in because his neighbors were loud and the walls were thin .
He’d wanted to move somewhere quieter for years , somewhere with neighbors who actually left the building every now and then .
Brent turned and tried the door across the hall , 440 .
No response .
What the hell ?
Brent turned around and headed up the hallway , stopping to knock at each door along the way .
One , two , and then five more doors .
Nothing .
He continued down the hall , his heart thudding , knocks turning to pounding at each door .
By the time he reached the end of the hallway , he was hot and sweaty , yelling .
“HELLO ? !
ANYONE ?
! ” Nothing but black silence .
The darkened hall seemed to constrict as his mind started racing .
Impossible .
There’s no way that nobody’s home .
No fucking way .
Unless .
Terrorists .
The word bubbled to the surface as an answer to a question he’d not yet had the courage to ask .
They were in New York , so it wasn’t implausible .
He raced back to his apartment , door still open , went to the windows and pulled the curtains aside , then looked down on the city streets .
The empty city streets .
Brent was speechless , his heart on pause , eyes swimming in and out of focus .
“What the fuck ? ” It didn’t add up .
If there were an attack , there would be bodies .
If there was an evacuation , surely his wife would’ve woken him .
Unless maybe it happened while she was out and unable to get back .
That thought died on the vine when he spotted Gina’s purse and keys on the kitchen table , right where she put them every night before bed , ready for the next morning .
He looked back down .
No people .
No cars on the street .
Well , none that were moving , anyway .
Brent could see a handful that were either in the middle of the street , or had crashed into the cars parked on the opposite side of the street .
He could see exhaust from some of the cars , their lights still on .
It was as if everyone on his block just simultaneously vanished .
Everyone except Brent .
He went to Ben’s room again to get a look from his son’s window , which had a slightly better angle at the cross street .
Something sharp stung his foot .
He cursed as he stumbled , glancing at the carpet to see a small blue train .
Stanley Train , Ben’s favorite toy , which he carried with him everywhere , including to bed .
It was there , just sitting on the floor .
Brent bent and picked it up .
Its wide eyes and eternally giant smile stared back at him .
Wherever his little boy was , he was without his favorite toy .
He set the train on Ben’s pillow and returned to his room .
He got dressed , then grabbed his keys , wallet , and phone .
He shoved everything in his jeans , then went to the kitchen , found the notepad and a pen and left a note for Gina .
“Where did you go ?
Went outside to look for you .
Knocked on doors at our neighbors , nobody’s home .
I’ll be back at 1 p.m .
If you come home , wait for me .
Love , Brent” Halfway through the front door , Brent thought of something , then went back to his son’s room , grabbed Stanley Train from the pillow and put it in his pocket .
** Brent took the stairs down to the next floor , and started knocking on those doors , despite not knowing anyone on this floor .
At the sixth door without any response , he worked up the courage to try a doorknob .
Locked .
Halfway down the hall , he got an idea .
He found the fire alarm and pulled it .
The alarm blared ; a banshee shriek amid the quiet .
Brent covered his ears , watching the hall , waiting for people to flee .
Not a single door opened .
“Fuck it , ” Brent said , and went to apartment 310 , tried the knob .
It was locked .
He backed up a bit , kicked at a spot right below the doorknob and was surprised at how easily the door burst open .
Why even have locks ?
“Hello ?
! ” he shouted .
No response .
She 's not as bad as I might believe .
Amber urges that she is a really nice person .
Needless to say this is frightening for me .
Have I lost my mind ?
Has writing caused me difficulty in differentiating fiction from reality ?
The solution was simple .
Amber needed to be given her own , special place in the forest where I could visit her on a regular basis .
Perhaps this would put a stop to weaving herself in nearby people or mentally calling out to me in the middle of the night , asking where I am .
So I found Amber a special , little landscape in the forest and dedicated it to her .
A couple times a week I would visit and perform my secret calling .
In addition , I would bring pieces of chocolate and leave it in the area so that Amber would feel all-the-more special .
Guess what ?
Amber was not satisfied with her landscape !
Somehow she guided me to a place at the opposite end of the forest and urged me to dedicate that place as our special place .
`` Oh , Amber ; it 's beautiful !
I can see why you prefer this area . ''
I now visit her in this place and continue to offer my special calling along with gifts of chocolate .
In recent days I have brought with wine and decorated the ground with it to intoxicate her spirit and hopefully ease her inhibitions .
One morning in the not-so-distant future I will bring with a red rose , and kiss the petals that are surely as delicate as her sweet lips .
The rose will be left in the forest along with the usual gifts of chocolate and wine .
Perhaps these simple gestures of kindness will charm and invoke the imaginary spirit of Amber to oversee the success of her trilogy , maybe even ensure that it is all-the-more enjoyable for you .
Tom Raimbault Frankfort , Illinois September 5 , 2011 Amber – the death mask Chapter One Distanced by 10.6 miles of a rural highway named Route 4 , Sillmac has long been a neighboring community of the charming town of Mapleview .
Mapleview was established in the 1830s , but it was n't until 1872 , precisely , that the town of Sillmac established itself .
As originally described in The Tree Goddess , Sillmac is similar to Mapleview as it has its share of restaurants , shops and even small museums for the town 's yearly tourists .
But Sillmac is considered a prestigious area in comparison to Mapleview .
Taxes are higher , housing with no set price .
Whatever you ask for your home ; it will definitely sell as no one can set a price on Sillmac .
The historical residences and places of business have been renovated to eliminate any appearance of decay and maintain that 1870s charm .
And just like Mapleview , the town is surrounded by thick , forested wilderness .
Many of the preserves have been improved to the point of qualifying as botanical gardens with paved , nature trails outlined in beautiful flowers ; countless ponds with lily pads and meditational gardens at the center of flowing creeks .
Make no mistake about it ; Sillmac is a town where the elite few reside .
And it is n't uncommon for those with happy stories of success and extreme wealth to live in Sillmac .
Take for example married couple , Michael and Linsey , and their daughter , Paulette .
Michael was founder of the now nationwide chain of hardware stores called Dickly 's Hardware .
Merely opening his first hardware store in downtown Mapleview , Dickly 's hardware soon grew at an exponential rate which rewarded Michael the ability to purchase and own an enormous region of wilderness at the outskirt of Sillmac .
In that region of wilderness ; he had an enormous , castle-like mansion built for him , his wife and daughter to live in .
The very center of the estate is what could be described as a miniature , forested mountain with that castle-like mansion sitting buried under thick trees .
But despite their great fortune , Michael and Linsey would soon see much misfortune on a morning in 1987 when their nine-year-old daughter , Paulette , had a terrible accident that would change her and the family 's life forever .
Keep in mind that the family lived at the top of a miniature mountain .
Paulette had the wild inclination that morning to coast on her bike down one of the sides .
On that morning , she ignored her instincts , feeling that overcoming her fears and venturing down the slope would have made her all the braver along with providing some much needed excitement .
With only a gentle push over the edge , an overwhelming force of gravity pulled her faster and faster down the slope .
There was no turning back for Paulette as the velocity rapidly increased .
She maintained firm hold on the handlebars and stayed in control for a few seconds .
But the child didn’t anticipate that the landscape would soon turn treacherous not more than halfway down the forested slope .
A rocky formation with large , moss-colored boulders soon suggested a terrible danger .
Naturally , she applied her coaster brake to avoid surfaces that could never be biked on—at least at a high speed .
Despite its reputation for a mild disposition , a timber rattlesnake was startled at the sound of Paulette 's back tire that scraped along the soil , kicking up dust while rapidly approaching .
The snake had no choice but to strike at whatever danger approached .
Its fangs pierced the bicycle 's front tires .
Paulette had seen the snake 's attack and screamed just as the tire popped .
She toppled over the handlebars and continued her high-speed descent in the form of somersaults .
The only thing on her mind at that moment was whether or not the ugly snake was near .
Of course the sensation of branches , occasional leaves and anything else touching her on the ground were believed to be the snake coming to get her .
The young girl screamed while desperately trying to get away .
This only added to her rapid descent of somersaults .
In reality , the snake lay injured near the bike and was the least of Paulette’s worries .
She continued to somersault herself out of control until spiraling over a small drop which landed in a region of boulders .
This final smash that was fueled by such incredible momentum not only broke her neck and damaged an area of her spinal cord , but caused injury to the posterior inferior frontal gyrus of her brain—more commonly referred to as Broca 's region ( responsible for speech and language comprehension ) .
Young Paulette was a mangled up mess , unconscious and bleeding from the head .
And how was she rescued in such an isolated area ?
Mothers have a keen sense of intuition .
Linsey received an unusual surge of anxiety at the moment her daughter pushed off the hill .
Within a minute her face flushed with a God-awful terror .
She knew beyond the shadow of a doubt that Paulette was in trouble .
`` Paulette ?
Paulette ! ''
The frantic woman ran along the outside of the castle-like mansion , desperately searching for her daughter .
Had someone hiked up the miniature mountain to hide on the forested property with the purpose of abducting the young girl ?
Ironically , the easiest and most logical slope to hike down while wondering this was the one Paulette descended .
Linsey nervously cried and wiped her tears while hiking down the slope , all the while just knowing that her daughter was in grave danger .
Was she descending the right slope ?
Should she have turned around and looked elsewhere ?
But some distance down the slope could be seen Paulette 's bicycle lying on the ground .
Linsey quickly jogged downwards while calling out to her daughter .
Finally reaching the bicycle , Linsey took notice of the injured snake that looked to have been run over by a tire .
Maybe Paulette was bitten and now lay unconscious .
But no , it was far worse than that !
Imagine the shock of seeing your child laying face-first on a treacherous terrain of boulders with a small pool of blood running near her head .
Would you grab your cell phone and call for the paramedics ?
This wouldn’t have been possible in 1987 , even for the wealthy .
There were no cell phones in people 's pockets in those days , especially in a deeply rural area .
And although Linsey wished to run to her daughter , some part of her knew that every second counted !
It was an adrenaline-fueled flight back up the slope that nearly caused a young woman a heart attack .
Broca 's region is interesting .
Although we label the area responsible for generating speech and understanding language , it really is n't .
People who have sustained injuries and damage to this part of the brain have been able to resume speech some months later .
It seems that other areas of the brain are capable of taking over whatever responsibility the Broca region has .
And you would think that for such a young girl , Paulette would have restored this vital function of generating words .
But nothing intelligible could be produced .
With only grunts that soon turned to frustration , it was easier to maintain communication with the girl by playing charades and verifying a `` yes '' or `` no '' with one blink of the eyes or two , soon to be replaced with nods by the time she hopefully restored use of her neck .
As hoped , Paulette’s broken neck healed and regained the ability to move through therapy .
But spinal cord damage from some apparent , blunt trauma during the descent had left Paulette unable to move from the neck , down .
Fortunately , Michael and Linsey 's wealth allowed at home therapy and some schooling from the finest teachers who specialized in disabled children .
But no matter how much therapy was provided for forming sound into talking , Paulette was unable to create intelligible words .
*** This tragedy took place only several miles from where Amber lived and grew up .
On that morning , Amber would have been a teenage girl of fifteen years old .
In Sillmac , many of the homes are independently seated on acres and acres of untamed wilderness , just like Michael and Linsey’s home .
But Amber’s parents lived in the beautifully wooded subdivision of Settler 's View that shared a street with other enormous homes that averaged a modest price of $ 950,000 to just over $ 1,000,000 .
This , of course , is being compared with much larger homes ( like Michael and Linsey’s ) that sat on thirty acres or more of wilderness that would go for ... well ; let 's just say much , much more !
It is n't .
It 's still hard , it 's still dangerous , even for you over hopped-up Anointeds . ''
`` Stop it .
You know that 's not what I meant .
Initiates , Jake .
I was going to say you’re not even initiates . ''
Her temper was back , which was fine with him .
Much more comfortable to deal with anyway .
She headed toward a darker part of the cellar .
`` You can be such a jerk , you know that ? ''
Whatever . ''
Jake followed after her .
`` Cael and I are tracking this demon so you need to back off . ''
`` I am not backing off . ''
`` Yes .
You are . ''
`` Look . ''
Kiene spun around .
`` I put a lot of effort into tracking all the signs .
It 's my first solo and I 'm not returning without even trying . ''
`` Meaning you do n't want to be humiliated in front of your friends . ''
`` Fine .
Yes .
Whatever . ''
She tossed her head back .
`` Call me shallow .
Call me a suck-up .
I do n't care , but I am tracking this demon . ''
Jake swung the shotgun up to rest over his shoulder .
The last thing he wanted to do was cause Kiene any embarrassment among the other Anointed initiates , though he was n't sure why he even cared about that .
They were all the lowest form of life as far as he was concerned .
`` Fine , you can stay .
But , sweetheart , we 're doing this together . ''
Where he could keep an eye on her .
`` I 'm in charge .
You do everything I say . ''
Oh her eyes flared wide at that .
Maybe this could be fun after all .
`` Deal ? ''
She glared at him .
He could practically see the cogs of her mind weighing options .
Finally her gaze met his .
`` Deal . ''
~~~ Basement checked out , they trudged up the stairs .
Kiene 's shoulder bag swung against her hip .
Jake wondered what kind of arsenal she had in her little bag of tricks .
Cael was waiting for him on the main floor .
`` Kiene ? ''
His forehead scrunched and he looked questioningly at Jake .
Jake shrugged .
Kiene 's countenance lit up .
`` Cael ! ''
Striding over , she gave Cael a quick one-armed hug , both of them holding their splitters out to the side .
Jake grunted .
She never smiled that wide for him .
`` Upstairs clear ? ''
Jake barked out at his brother .
Cael 's lips stretched tight , but a dimple popped out since the kid could never suppress a grin no matter how hard he tried .
`` Nothing upstairs . ''
Even his tone held humor .
`` You ? ''
Jake flicked his gaze toward the girl .
`` Well , nothing demonic . ''
Kiene rolled her eyes .
`` Kiene , what are you doing here ? ''
Cael asked .
`` Same thing as you . ''
Kiene grinned and it made all sorts of feelings jump around in Jake 's gut .
Cael frowned .
`` What data did you use ? ''
`` Satellite thermal imaging , the sudden explosion of low-frequency wave lengths shooting across the area—no way is that much activity not supernatural—the rash of suicides… It all points to— '' '' A demon . ''
The skin between Cael 's eyes bunched as he frowned .
Kiene tilted her head again .
`` You think it 's something else ? ''
`` I do n't know .
It 's just…a feeling . ''
`` Cael , I told you , '' Jake said .
`` If it waddles like a duck… '' '' I know , just keep an open mind . ''
Jake pulled his kremloc dagger from the waistband at the back of his jeans .
`` I brought the opal , did n't I ? ''
Cael 's look of relief was worth bringing the extra weapon , though Jake doubted he 'd be using it .
He shoved it back into his waistband .
`` Now , can you two compare geek notes later so we can search the rest of this place ?
Cael , you finish this floor .
Kiene and I will check outside . ''
`` There 's three of us now . ''
Kiene drew her FLIR from her jacket .
The little hand-held infrared detector would pinpoint a demon in seconds .
`` Why do I have to go with you ? ''
Because he did n't want her running into a demon on her own .
`` Fine .
You take the front yard . ''
Which he and Cael already scanned on their way in .
`` I 'll take the back . ''
Where he could get to her quick .
`` Happy ? ''
`` Ecstatic . ''
She spun on her heel and flounced toward the front door , leaving Cael and Jake staring after her .
`` This is going to be a fun job , '' Jake muttered before heading in the opposite direction .
~~~ The old wrap-around porch groaned beneath Jake 's sneakers .
I could feel the flush of red appear on my face .
The African Queen across the American desk leaned back in her chair and narrowed her eyes to slits as if focusing some second sight into my soul .
She tilted her head to one side .
“Did you ? ” she asked .
“Did I what ? ” “Did you act inappropriately ? ” I quickly concluded she was not playing with me as some on the school board had .
Nor was she looking for a reason to despise me as one of the other potential employers who’d interviewed me .
She was investigating something .
She was a dime store novel detective in a business woman’s power suit .
“No , ” I said , mild irritation escaping with the word .
I had developed a defensive posture over the months since my dismissal but was tired of bringing it to bear .
It never helped anyway .
In my experience , people formed their opinions of me within moments of hearing I was fired for inappropriate conduct as High School faculty .
Her verdict was handed down quickly , too , but not in the direction I expected .
“I believe you .
Thank you for being honest with me .
That helps with my decision.” She leaned forward again and inspected my application from the file in front of her .
“Sorry , did you say you believe me ? ” That was foreign to me .
Most everyone else , even one of my own brothers , opted not to trust me as quickly as this woman chose to believe my version of the story .
“Yes , ” she said not looking up from the application .
“Why ?
Not that I’m offended or anything , but no one else seems to.” She looked up into my eyes and held my gaze a moment .
She seemed to weigh something on invisible scales before she spoke again .
“I can just tell when people are lying to me .
That’s good for you .
It’s very important to me that I hire someone I believe I can trust.” I sat back in the chair feeling strangely relieved somehow and noticed my anger had greatly subsided .
She had disarmed me .
I couldn’t say exactly how .
“How did you ... .” I stopped and decided to star over .
“Why is it ... ? ” Again , I didn’t seem to know where I was trying to go .
One more try .
“Okay , I get the whole , ‘It’s important to have honest employees who won’t steal company pens’ thing , but I’m just asking to sweep and mop your floors a few times a day and empty your trash cans at night.” She looked at me without speaking .
I think she was waiting for me to continue but I’m not even sure of that now .
I didn’t know if I could or even if I should try .
I began to think I had made a poor move opening my mouth .
I thought I should have waited for her to ask a question about my work experience or if maybe I knew which end of the broom to hold as I swept shredded paper bits from her floor when she wasn’t there at night .
Just then I turned my head slightly toward the closed door distracted by something .
Again I thought I smelled ash smoldering away .
It stayed longer this time , and I believed I definitely smelled it this time .
I looked back at Jan and understood she hadn’t noticed it .
I couldn’t stand it any longer .
“I’m sorry , ” I said , “but is something burning ? ” She looked confused briefly as if she thought the English major was trying on a metaphor and then realized I meant it .
“No , I don’t believe so.” “Do you smoke ?
Cigarettes , I mean.” “No , I do not.” She wasn’t the least bit put off by the personal question .
The interview had waved goodbye to personal formality before we walked into her office .
Why bother with it now ? , I thought “It’s just that that’s the second time I thought I smelled smoke since I got here .
The first time was in the lobby ... ” But then it was gone again .
“Rest assured , Mr. Nicholas , we have a state of the art fire alarm system here .
It will detect fire before anyone else does .
Now , how about we get back to the interview ?
I see you have had some janitorial experience in college.” I remained distracted for another second or two .
I had gotten a bad vibe from that smell .
I turned my face back to the waiting executive .
She raised her eyebrows in questioning anticipation .
I stumbled back into the conversation .
“Yes , it was part time .
I worked for the maintenance and housekeeping department of the university I attended .
It helped pay the bills , basically .
It wasn’t anything really professional .
Sweeping , mopping , dusting , windows , and I ran one of those big floor waxing machines between semesters.” The rest of the interview ran like this .
It lasted about ten more minutes and felt much the same the rest of them had .
It also concluded the same way the others had .
But in another way , an intangible way , it was also very different .
Jan stood up and extended her hand .
I got up from the chair and took the hand with a sense of doom knowing what was coming next .
“Thank you for your time , Mr. Nicholas , I’ll be in touch with you sometime this week.” There it was .
I’d heard that one before .
It was the interviewer’s way of saying , Good luck buddy .
I hope you find a job elsewhere .
In my experience they never contacted you later that week .
It was a polite way to brush you off .
“Thanks.” I turned to leave .
“I mean it , ” Jan added .
“Mean what ? ” I turned back to look her in the eye .
“I mean it when I say I’ll contact you later this week .
You were thinking I was going to blow you off .
I’d hire someone else over you and not bother calling you .
That’s no doubt happened to you before .
But that’s not the way I do things .
When I say I’m going to do something , I’ll do it.” How did she know that was what I was thinking ?
I mean , it was almost verbatim the same words as had gone through my head .
I could see she was serious .
She not only dressed business , she meant business .
And that was what mattered .
I somehow knew that everyone in cubicle world on the other side of the door behind me was terrified of this woman .
They didn’t know what to do in the face of such naked authority .
I also knew they shouldn’t be afraid .
If anything she could be their strongest advocate if they were on the same side .
In that moment I liked Jan Fenstra very much .
I had no problem with authority and no burning rebellious nature a younger man might possess .
I was no mindless robot or no spineless yes-man .
I was just looking for my place .
I saw in this woman a person with the power to help me restore my dignity .
“Thanks for your honesty too .
I’ll look forward to your call.” And I did .
This was beginning to feel like a real opportunity .
Without another word between us I turned to the door again , opened it and went through .
* * * I sat in my car , keys dangling in the ignition .
The rusted 1991 Honda Civic was a cocoon and inside I was forming into ... something .
Not quite sure what I felt I was becoming , I looked down the street ahead of me .
From where I sat I saw the building .
Wonderfully exotic and alluring .
But weird .
He crept along until he reached the doorway behind her .
Pushing the door open a little more and admitting himself to the room , he stopped .
He smelled blood .
He could see blood .
It had pooled all over the floor .
Jim stepped further into his daughter’s room , getting closer to his wife .
Alex pulled something away from her face , and made chewing movements with her jaw .
The blood .
Realization tried to smite him , but failed to penetrate the shield of shock that clouded his brain .
Jim reached out a hand and took his wife by the shoulder .
Desperately telling himself that everything he saw was a nightmare .
Just a nightmare .
Maybe he had caught her fever and was still lying in bed , dreaming the entire horrifying scenario .
Maybe she would pinch him and he would wake up and the loathsome images would fade away .
A memory to drudge up when he saw his shrink next .
Alex turned at his touch and faced him .
Her clothing was covered with blood as it ran from her lips and dripped off of her chin and down her chest .
She dropped the shredded fleshy mash that she had been devouring , grabbed his hand and bit it , taking two joints from his index finger .
Jim screamed from the duality of surprise as well as pain .
Cupping his injured hand and pulling it away from his wife’s blood drenched lips .
It wasn’t a terrible fever nightmare that he was in .
This wasn’t even a dream .
He backed away two steps before he doubled over and threw up all over one of Meredith’s stuffed animal toys .
Alex was on him before he could right himself once more and stand up .
He was weakened by the shock of what he had seen and what she had done to him .
He tried to push her away and failed .
She bit him again on the cheek before he could force her back and flee the bedroom and run back down the stairs past those happy faces .
He ran , but it was too late .
He had caught her illness .
In peace and prosperity states and individuals are actuated by higher principles because they do not find themselves face to face with imperious necessities .
- Thucydides He sat with his back to the campfire , looking out into the trees that surrounded the small camp .
The flicker of the fire’s light sent shadows dancing on the trunks of the trees , in a nearly hypnotic pattern that he had watched for what felt like days .
Leaning back on a log with his shotgun in his lap , he mindlessly flicked on and off the safety switch repeatedly as the last few days ran through his head .
At least as much as much of them that he could still recall .
They all ran together into a giant blur of color and motion , including some of the parts that he would rather have forgotten .
It took much concentration for him to keep everything strait .
He was alive and in most cases that might be more than he could have hoped for .
The last few days had been rough to say the least , he had watched friends die terrible deaths .
He had to kill more to save them a fate that was most defiantly worse than death .
Three days since it all had really started and three days on the run .
This had been the first peaceful night that they had had in those long days .
Peaceful was relative , though the excitement had died down , the memories were still fresh .
The panic and mindless terror were beginning to fade away , leaving a kind of numbness in their place .
He could still hear the moans and screams of the dying whenever the soft clicking of the safety switch died down , even over the crackling of the fire behind him .
And from the sounds that his companions were making , they were in the same place that he was .
He jumped up a little as one of the logs in the fire split and collapsed with a dull thud that sent sparks racing skyward .
He knew nothing would ever be the same , as he wondered whether or not he would ever regain his nerves .
Best not to think about it , but he had little choice .
It all just kept coming back .
He got up to stretch his legs for a moment and walk around the perimeter of the camp .
This was at least the twentieth time that he had done it over the course of the night , and each time with the same results , nothing was out there .
Still he was left with the gut wrenching feeling that if he let his guard down for a moment something would appear and pounce on them all .
The sky began to lighten as from time to time one of his companions gave a soft murmur in their sleep , once in a while even going so far as to speak or cry out .
Troubled by their dreams , or more likely their nightmares .
He knew what they were going through in the depths of their subconscious .
Sleep was not something that he wanted to endure at the moment , he was still haunted by the nightmares that assailed him the last time he tired .
The faces of the dead wouldn’t leave him alone .
He could face the horrors while awake , but doing so in his sleep deeply unnerved him .
To be afraid of a dream .
It was pure cowardice .
Lynn stirred and finally awoke , she had actually managed to sleep through most of the night , but she was a tough woman .
A damn near fearless woman .
He was glad that she was in charge .
She kept her head through the entire ordeal .
“What time is it ? ” She asked sleepily .
“It’s nearing morning , not quite sure , maybe five or so.” He had lost the watch that he had picked up in an encounter the day before , but it didn’t matter , time didn’t mean very much anymore .
No meetings to get to and no schedules to keep .
All that was left was staying alive for as long as possible .
He stopped flicking the safety switch and turned to look at her , she looked a little disheveled and bleary-eyed from a long night out in the open , but aside from that she looked as good as ever .
Lynn palmed the sleep from her eyes and then shakily stood up .
“Have you been sitting up all night ? ” “Yep” he grunted as he turned back to watching the woods .
Watching for movement .
Lynn put her glasses on and came over and sat next to him , ”mind if I sit here ? ” “Mi casa es su casa.” He slid over a little on his log to make some room for her .
Lynn shook her head at him , “you should have gotten one of us up to take the watch for you , so you could get some sleep ! ” “I didn’t feel like sleeping.” He went back to flicking the safety switch on and off .
Pretty as ever .
Honestly though he was the only one he knew who thought that she was pretty , besides perhaps Douglas .
He had thought so since they met back in junior high school .
It was her smile that did it for him , her smile was like the sun .
Bright and always there .
But she hadn’t smiled for three days now , three days was a long time to go without seeing the sun .
“Jason , please try and get some sleep.” “I’ll try.” For the first time in those three days she smiled and just for that he knew it was worth the nightmares that would come the moment he dropped off .
Lynn took the shotgun from him and pushed him on his way to the empty sleeping bag that she had been using .
Within seconds of his head hitting the pillow and the blankets accepting him within its warm embrace , he was asleep .
The four of them sat in the darkened living room with their eyes on the television that was sitting in the corner of the room .
The warm glow of the television flickered and washed over them as the images on its screen changed .
Their worn VHS copy of the movie Dawn of the Dead was playing for perhaps the 20th time and it was starting to show it’s age .
They had all seen the movie many times , some of them had done so willingly , and the rest because that is what was going on at the time and they didn’t wish to rock the boat .
Billy sat alone in the easy chair in the corner opposite from the television .
He sat there with a grin on his face .
He always got a kick out of Hare Krishna zombie girl , nobody was quite sure why and nobody really wanted to know badly enough to bother to ask .
It was just one of his many quirks , you accepted them when you accepted Billy as a friend .
They made life more interesting .
Jason sat on the couch with both Lynn and her intended Douglas .
Lynn was enraptured by the movie as ever , while Douglas was doing his best not to look bored , if only out of politeness for his fiancée .
He was failing that struggle , but he always did .
The man couldn’t act his way out of a wet paper sack .
Jason personally divided his attention between the movie , and his friends .
I am not .
Matt looked at the clock in Jon’s office and realized he needed to get started on his work .
He couldn’t waste any more time trying to deal with Jon .
Matt felt himself growing angrier , and the bit of stench that managed to seep past his fingers and into his nose was making him light-headed .
He walked to the corner , picked the nine iron out of the bag , and not-so-gently prodded Jon’s shoulder with it .
Jon stirred , moaned , and in an apparent attempt to raise his head , fell off his chair , hit his head on the side of the desk , and landed in an awkward position on his back , with his arms folded together and in front of him , like he had fallen backward into a too-small coffin .
Matt had to stifle a laugh .
Maybe Jon was now dead .
Maybe his head impacting on the side of the desk had broken his neck .
The vomit-laden fiasco may turn out to have a silver lining…no , a golden one .
After taking a shallow breath through his mouth , Matt poked Jon again , in the sternum this time , and hard .
That did the trick .
That did the trick in a way that Matt never expected , and in a way that he never intended .
Jon’s eyes shot open , and Matt stumbled backward , knocking something over and almost falling before coming to rest against the wall behind him .
Jon’s eyes…they were ... they were completely black , even where the whites should have been .
It was a dull black , and it made Matt’s stomach drop to look into it , like he was looking into pure , unabashed evil .
Matt’s mind scrambled , trying to think of something to say or do , anything that might make those eyes look away from him , but no thoughts came .
He began to feel a muddiness in his brain , and realized that the only thing he wanted to do was to get out of there , close the door behind him , and go back home .
He could make some more bad coffee for himself and look for a whole new job—a different one .
He decided that he didn’t like title work all that much anyway , the clients were arrogant and insatiable , and— Before Matt could complete his thought , Jon’s mouth fell open , and a thick yellowish liquid poured out of it , splattering Jon’s button-down .
It was a vile thing to see , and then Jon was trying to sit up , and Matt was trying not to breathe .
But he had been holding his breath for too long then , and he had to , he had to take a breath—a full one this time .
The hand unclamped from his nose .
Matt inhaled .
The smell had gotten so much worse , unspeakably worse .
The office began to spin around him , and a strange numbness began to nip at Matt’s skin , as if trying to find a way in .
He continued to hold the golf club in front of him , pressing it against Jon , trying to keep Jon down .
“Don’t get up , ” Matt said .
“Please don’t get up , I’ll get someone , some help.” Then Jon grabbed the end of the golf club and pulled , and then—everything was getting fuzzy and that smell—Jon gripped Matt’s elbow , and his grip was so strong , pulling Matt in .
It wasn’t just a numbness now , it was a debilitating , creeping paralysis .
In spite of the relative lack of sensation , Matt felt something in his shoulder give way and pop , sending a terrible shooting pain across his collar bone and down the side of his body .
Damn you , Matt thought , damn you and your working out and— Jon’s straining forearm stuck out of a rolled-up shirt sleeve .
The skin of the forearm looked dry as paper , like it was crackling .
Lines were forming lengthwise up the forearm , as if the skin was conforming to the muscle strands underneath .
Then one of the lines of skin tore inward , and Matt could see muscle fibers ripping over paper-thin skin and— Matt’s failing mind tried to think of something , something nasty , about how he hated Jon , but he couldn’t quite form the thought with the cotton ball fuzz that was now proliferating in his brain .
And what about the forearm , hadn’t it just— He blinked , and his eyes focused on Jon’s—Jon’s stale black eyes .
That was when Matt knew , even through the fuzziness in his brain , that death was only another moment away .
Matt’s eyes were closing again as his dulled sense of touch felt the bite .
They tried to reopen in shock , in pain , in anything…but they didn’t .
Chapter 2 “You ready ? ” Lars was sniffling and rubbing his nose .
Sven nodded .
“How many you going for ? ” “As many as I can get , ” Sven said .
“Just don’t drip any of your cold on me.” Lars nodded , then turned away suddenly and sneezed .
“I’m fine , must be allergies or something .
Let’s go , you got it.” Sven took a deep breath .
He squeezed his shoulder blades together and dug them into the bench .
He fixed his grip on the bar one final time .
Then , with a mighty heave , he lifted the 435 pound weight off the pins .
Every muscle in his body tensed , his mind filled with a crystal clear focus , and the bar and its plates became a part of him .
Sven lowered the bar to his chest .
He raised it .
He repeated the motion , counting in his head .
One .
Two .
Three .
Four .
Come on Sven .
Five .
Six .
Come on , come on .
The bar began to slow .
Sven strained under the bar , squeezing the hell out of it , squeezing it to death .
Four more .
Come on .
Come on .
Seven .
There you go Sven , come on just three more .
Let’s go .
Eight .
There it is , you got it , you got it .
He felt his face flush with heat and a numbness begin to creep down his forearms .
His breathing came in short , ragged gulps between clenched teeth .
He lowered the bar for the first half of his ninth rep .
When he began to lift the bar again , it stalled three inches above his chest .
Lars’s hands shot out at once , forming a shadow underhand grip under the bar , in case Sven’s muscles failed and the bar began to descend .
It didn’t descend , but continued to hang in place , obstinate .
Sven stared at it , willing it up with his mind .
Just get it past the sticking point .
Come on , let’s go .
But the bar just hung there , motionless .
Sven dug his heels into the floor , pushed even harder , and found a few more untapped muscle fibers to contract .
The bar burst through its sticking point to just short of lockout .
Nine .
He had conquered nine .
That’s it .
You got it .
One more .
Just one more .
Sven stared at the bar .
I got this , this is all mine .
Come on , let’s go .
He began to lower the bar to his chest for the tenth rep. His arms shook and his chest burned .
His head felt like it was about to explode .
It’s a good thing Lars is here , Sven thought , a great thing .
And just as he thought it , he got the sense that Lars was moving backward , around the bench press and away from it .
Sven couldn’t look up or around to check for sure , but that couldn’t have been happening , not when Sven was in the middle of what would probably be his final rep , and after having nearly failed on the previous one .
Even if Lars had suddenly decided to spot Sven from the front , Lars wouldn’t be switching in the middle of a rep so deep into a set as painful as this one .
Lars was too experienced and careful a spotter to do that .
Then the shaking spread from Sven’s arms and took over his whole body .
He was losing control of the bar and he knew it .
I flipped on the light , poured water into the glass that sat on the sink next to the faucet and drank greedily .
I opened my eyes and the glass dropped from my hand and as it shattered on the cream tile I began to scream .
The mirror had gone black .
In front of me stood a black figure .
It was more of an outline than an actual being .
Two angry red eyes stared at me from the other side of the glass .
A gruff voice began to speak .
`` We have him .
If you want him back , you must come in and get him . ''
Just as quickly as it had appeared the figure was gone .
Its words rang through my head over and over .
Shock overtook me .
The mirror remained black inside its gold trimming .
It did not even seem like I was in my bathroom or in my home .
It was like the blackness had come out of the mirror and tainted everything that surrounded me .
I tried to reason with myself , telling myself that I was only dreaming , that none of this was possible , that there was no way to go through a mirror , and that there was no way Andrew was on the other side of it .
I slowly reached out to the mirror with a shaky hand .
My fingers grazed the hot surface and caused ripples .
I gasped , thinking that I must have lost it .
There was no way that this could be real .
It simply was not possible .
I rubbed my fingers together , but felt no wetness .
Strange that it rippled , yet left no residue .
I told myself that it was not strange at all ; nothing ever made sense in dreams .
I reached out again , this time moving wrist deep into the mirror , my hand covered with heat from inside the blackness .
I started to contemplate if I could actually go through the mirror .
Furthermore , if I did go through the mirror , what would be waiting for me on the other side ?
What if I died the second I went through the mirror ?
I pulled my hand back in , the air in the bathroom feeling frigid around my hand .
A tingling sensation moved across my hand .
It felt as if the circulation had been cut off from it for a long time and was being allowed to run through again .
I stared at my hand and then shook my head .
I knew that I could not just keep standing , staring , and doing nothing .
If there was even the slightest chance that Andrew was on the other side of the mirror , would that not be enough reason to make it worth it to go through .
I climbed up onto the bathroom counter .
I thought of Andrew , held my breath , and pushed myself through .
Chapter 2 : I opened my eyes and gasped .
I stared with wide eyes at the landscape that surrounded me .
The sky was scorched black ; the trees were ash colored , leafless , and twisted , taking the shape of monsters .
Fields of what looked like toxic green straw stretched out for miles bordering the ominous mountains in the distance .
A single ashen path lay before me and I shuddered as the heat radiated up my legs from the ground , immediately creating a film of sweat on them .
`` Where am I ?
What is this place ? ''
I whispered to myself in a panicky voice .
I looked behind me and a black square the size of the bathroom mirror still remained .
It wasn’t too late to climb back through .
However , even if I went back , what would I be going back to ?
Would I really be able to live with not at least taking a look around , knowing that Andrew could be here , that his life could be in danger ?
My inner voice let me know simply that I could not .
I knew it to be an indisputable fact .
As scared as I was , I started to walk forward down the ashen path , leading myself into the sea of toxic green , praying to god or whoever else was up there that it would not swallow me whole .
As I walked the ash began to gather on my sweaty feet .
It reminded me of how the sand felt in the summertime back home .
In my mind I could see it .
I could see Andrew smiling with his surfboard in hand , running towards the water .
How I loved to watch him surf .
He had such child-like innocence when he went surfing .
You could see the pure happiness in his eyes .
They would look glazed over with glee .
It was always wonderful to see anyone so passionate about anything .
I could feel my lip begin to tremble and looked up just in time to realize I was about to start walking off the path .
I stood for a second , looking at the toxic straw .
It was such a radiant green .
I reached out and stroked one of the long blades .
I jumped back , feeling the burn against my fingertips .
I looked at them and they were stained green .
They throbbed as they would have if I had run my fingers across a burner .
I became very glad that I had looked up before I strayed off the path .
My injury would have been much more severe by the looks of it .
I resolved to pay more attention , ignore the burns on my fingers , and to keep walking .
Hours had passed .
My legs were aching from walking .
Sweat poured down my body and through my already soaked negligee .
I was thirsty , but there was no water anywhere to be seen .
I noted a nearby tree stump .
I tested it with my toe , remembering how the grass had burned me before .
I felt no burn and decided it was ok to sit and take a rest .
I looked around me , still seeing nothing but the same fields , the same trees , and the same sky .
Who knew how long this place stretched for ?
It was at this thought that I began to sob uncontrollably , not caring if I became further dehydrated , not caring if I fell over dead where I sat .
Hope was fading from me .
The same thought kept passing through my head that I would never find Andrew and that he would be gone from me forever .
I closed my eyes and wished for death .
`` Excuse me , '' a tiny voice called from the side of me .
I looked over , unable to believe my eyes .
The voice had come from a small , round , brown creature floating three feet from me .
It had a mass of long thin hairs , making it look soft and poufy .
Its onyx eyes shined with kindness and intelligence .
`` Are you lost ? ''
it questioned .
For a moment I was unable to answer , not being able to process what was happening .
`` I think I am more lost than I have ever been in my life , '' I stammered .
A few tears trickled down my cheeks .
“What is this place ? ” ”You are in the Fascian Plains .
Down this path is the Red River and the mountains behind it are the Ganglesh mountains .
How did you get here ?
There is nothing for miles and miles . ''
A bitter laughter filled my head as I thought over the ridiculousness my reply .
`` I got here through my bathroom mirror .
This thing said that they had my boyfriend , Andrew and that I had to come through to get him .
He looked at the bloody gash on its shoulder .
A man-sized bite of flesh was gone as well as part of its dangling arm .
The rest of the zombie was perfect .
It was tall , full figured , and dressed in a pro-football jersey and tight jean shorts .
He blinked hard .
He could see the painted nails that once scratched his back and belly .
Black was her color .
Now she came for him , unsteady , black-eyed and slack jawed .
Blue veins rose along her once soft and sensual skin .
He couldn’t believe he had to bash in the brains … of his girlfriend .
“No ! ” he screamed , hoisting the bat high in the air .
Still she came .
He swore he could see a smile on her crossed mouth .
Jeanine always had a smirk .
He blinked hard again .
It was something he always remembered .
Deep down inside he still loved her , or it .
He was ready to propose , but the world began to end .
Still she came , chin down , shuffling his way .
He wanted to hug her .
His instincts screamed to kill her .
Everyone else he knew was dead .
He couldn’t do it .
He felt a lump in his throat rise as he let out a sob .
I can’t .
He screamed , snatched up his backpack and ran .
He had been running ever since .
Night was coming and the tiny town was getting closer .
He tried to remember Jeanine the way she used to be , but could not .
He was huffing along , fighting for breath as he tried to reach the town .
He gave another look back and there she came , step after determined step .
He could swear she was getting faster .
She used to be faster than him anyway .
He never minded running behind her before , but now he had to stay ahead to stay alive .
It was a discomforting memory for Nate McDaniel .
CHAPTER 2 Nate was walking as fast as he could , often looking back over his shoulder .
His zombie girlfriend was nowhere to be seen .
The sun was dipping into the dusk as he made his way into the town .
Pear trees and flower beds were planted along the streets .
There were no stop lights , just signs and well-defined crosswalks .
The polluted sounds of human interaction were vacant .
He followed the railroad tracks across a rusting iron bridge as a wide stream of water flowed underneath .
He was cautious .
Zombies could be anywhere .
He hoped there were none .
He cupped his hands to his mouth , but then lowered them .
Maybe yelling wasn’t such a good idea .
Nate didn’t want to alert the unknown .
He knew better .
He was starving now and his stomach hadn’t stopped growling for miles .
He was exhausted .
He never remembered being so tired .
His feet were aching and burning like fire .
He had to find food .
There had to be something left in this town .
As he finished crossing the bridge , he looked back again .
Nothing was there .
He saw a black bird perched on a power line above , then something snapped and he lurched forward .
“Damn ! ” he shouted .
Blinding pain shot over his shin and up through his knee .
His leg was wedged between two rotted railroad ties .
His jeans and skin were torn just below the kneecap .
He was bleeding and held fast .
He tried pulling his hurt knee up .
“Ugh ! ” It didn’t help that he was over two-hundred and fifty pounds .
He was dead weight , and the effort jammed his leg further down .
“No—No—No !
Lord no ! ” He closed his eyes and took a breath .
The lowering sun went dark as a cloud passed .
He felt the shade on his face .
Somewhere a crow squawked and flapped away .
He opened his eyes and looked back .
He watched the black bird dart over the head of a figure .
It was her .
Already !
She was coming his way .
His chin dipped into his chest .
“Come on Jeanine ! ” he yelled , knocking his bat into the bridge .
His heart was sinking .
He was stuck and she was going to eat him .
His stomach coiled into a knot .
His will to survive was not the strongest , but his desire not to be eaten alive was something else .
Deep inside , fear consumed him .
He pushed on the rotting boards .
They groaned under the desperate power of his supple muscles .
He strained in agony as she approached step by step , stumbling over the rotting ties .
Fall !
Fall off the bridge dammit !
She came on , unfettered by her missteps , crossing the bridge only a dozen paces away .
How does she move so fast ?
Nate couldn’t comprehend how the slow-going figure stayed at his heels like a bloodhound .
He thought of the story of the tortoise and the hare .
He used to love that story .
He ripped his leg free with a scream .
A torn slab of flesh and jeans was hanging down his leg .
Thick splinters were burning deep under his skin .
He saw muscle , or was it ?
Don’t look , idiot !
Tears watered down his paunchy face as he struggled to his feet .
He saw a necklace hanging from her neck .
PART 1 FRESH CHAPTER 2 Something fresh , the strange-looking , salt-and-pepper bearded man in tattered clothes thought , fighting his way through the damp , dripping ravine to meet the morning tide .
Last night , while the forces of Mother Nature descended upon the helpless island like blood-thirsty vampires , and ear-piercing screams echoed in the night , he dreamt of something fresh .
Something fresh , he was certain , awaited him on the naked beach .
He made it to the clearing , his feet bleeding through rotted tennis shoes , his heart pumping .
He turned and fixed on the setting behind him , sweat cascading down his bony cheeks , believing that there was someone or something there .
But there was nothing .
Nothing but his own trembling shadow in the creeping sun .
At last he turned , prepared to see what he 'd only seen last night as a blur , a smoky haze , a shape entirely formless .
Something fresh , he thought , not knowing if he was trembling in fear or anticipation .
At first he only saw the tide 's usual disappointments : tree limbs blown into the water from the other side of the island , seaweed wrenched from the ocean floor , pebbles and tiny and larger rocks of innumerable configurations .
And then he saw something else .
Something new and different .
Lying face-down in the sand , among a score of torn , soggy driftwood , was the body of a woman .
Something fresh .
He tore across the beach with sand irritating the exposed flesh in his rotted tennis shoes trying to slow his progress .
Nothing could stop him .
He reached the woman and flung the driftwood aside .
He picked her up in his arms , turned her , cleared the sand away from her face and felt for a pulse .
He felt her heart beating .
The strange man looked up at the scorching sun and smiled for the first time in ages .
It did n't occur to him that the last time he 'd smiled he had a full set of shimmering pearly whites , where now he had a mouth full of black rot and decay .
Nevertheless , he smiled , and soon began to weep .
Five minutes later he carried the woman away as carefully as a five-foot , six-inch fragile mirror .
At the same time he vanished into the trees , something else washed ashore .
A severed hairy arm with a smashed , paper-thin hand , complete with five twisted digits .
* * * The pictures in her mind never completely blacked out .
She saw bits and pieces of her past strike out from a cold dark tunnel .
Memories with long skeletal-like fingers which grabbed and tried to wash her spinning body down the tunnel .
But they let go .
Somehow , as the black became an obvious destiny , the skeletal fingers let go .
And she kept floating and spinning .
Through the crest of violent , hungry waves , and bullet-hard raindrops fired from justice above .
She floated .
Until , at last , she landed—or dreamed she had .
A place where dawn rose calmly and the lights were brighter than a million connected floodlights .
And the heinous skeletal fingers , that had once held her , slithered away like individual serpents , down the frigid tunnel .
Her eyes never opened , she never once regained consciousness , yet she knew it was over .
Or just beginning .
Then there was gray .
An image to let her know she was still on the boundary between reality , fantasy , life and death .
The storm was not over .
A different set of fingers grasped her , warm fingers from a bright place .
She imagined hearing the soft melodic strum of a twelve-string guitar playing somewhere deep in the blinding white .
A day passed .
Another .
On the third day the gray metamorphosed into shape , definition and color .
The third day her eyes opened and she took a first glimpse of her unfortunate surroundings .
`` You .
.made .
.it , '' a nervous voice said .
`` I thought .
.thought I was going to lose you . ''
She dreamed the voice she heard was a doctor 's , but her eyes—open with toothpicks holding the lids—saw differently .
The man hovering over her was no doctor .
He was as scraggly as a common bum , a vagabond , a total loser who survived on rat-like behavior .
He had the unpleasant odor of dead fish , a salty , dank scent .
He had a beard ( if that 's what it was ) which looked as if it had never been shaven .
His eyes were as worn and bloodshot as the town drunk 's .
His skin color was n't even normal .
It was gross , pale and thin .
It bordered on translucent .
She saw herself waking from a deep sleep to a dying , disgusting , useless bum .
`` I. .
.I ca n't believe you made it . ''
He held out hands which were as worn as his eyes .
`` Who ? ''
she forced through sun blistered lips , her voice box not allowing anymore .
She tried to turn away from the man 's anxious gaze , but her neck would n't cooperate .
`` Please , '' he whispered , bringing something to her mouth .
`` Please drink .
You need fluids .
You almost .
.did n't make it . ''
She drank without objection .
She doubted that she had the strength to object .
A warm , milky substance slid down her parched throat .
Coconut ?
She compared the taste to her memory banks .
Yes , coconut milk .
The man pulled the coconut away from her lips .
`` Are you hungry ?
You must be starved . ''
`` I , '' she began , the jaws , this time , not cooperating .
He gave her another drink and she drained the coconut dry .
The man took the coconut away again .
He broke off a piece of it and offered it to her .
`` Hungry ? ''
He repeated , as if she did n't understand English .
She shook her head .
`` Okay . ''
He put the coconut on the ground beside her .
`` But I must know how you feel ?
Please , if you feel feverish or sick or cold—I must know .
How do you feel ? ''
Her first sentence came , along with a loud discordant cough .
`` You .
Sarah said nothing for a second .
`` What monster ? ''
`` Remember the Monster dreams I told you I used to have a long time ago ? ''
Sarah looked away for a second and then nodded .
`` Sort of . ''
`` Well , I had another one last night . ''
`` Were you up all night ? ''
Nick shook his head .
`` Hey , I 'll tell you more later .
I 'm running really late .
I can only hope nothing happened last night . ''
`` Nothing ever does , '' Sarah said , flipped her wrist over to check her watch and pecked Nick on the lips quickly .
`` See ya later . ''
`` Bye .
Have a good day . ''
Nick watched her cross the street to her car before opening the door to his own .
He flipped on the local radio news channel and began listening as he pulled away from the curb and merged into the now steady traffic of bankers , lawyers and businessmen all vying for green lights to usher them into the jam of machines jostling their way downtown .
It was just after nine before he finished his rounds and strode into the newsroom .
Normally , he should have been up at five , at the first precinct by six and in the newsroom at a quarter-past eight with forty-five minutes till deadline .
Fortunately , there had been nothing for either of the daylight shift cop reporters to write about , so Nick was n't worried when he passed John 's desk , said `` Nothing happened , '' detoured to the coffee pot to fill his mug , and made his way to his own desk .
He turned on his computer and leaned back in his chair , pulled open the copy of the morning daily he had bought at a street kiosk and began quickly scanning it for something he may have missed and might need to work on for the next day 's paper .
Nothing .
No mention of the paintings robbery .
He sighed and looked out the window at the sliver of the street he could see .
There was just the end of the morning rush hour scurrying for parking or walking briskly towards a building .
There was never anything interesting going on just outside his window .
Nick clicked his browser and began scanning the on-line versions of the other daily newspapers in his newspaper’s circulation area , although outside of Pittsburgh and its suburbs , his paper made little dent in the surrounding areas .
Then he checked Drudge Report and Instapundit to make sure the world wasn’t ending , clicked quickly through a dozen of his favorite blogs to check if they’d posted yet , and if so , about what , before flipping over to the paper’s subscriber newsfeeds , quickly scanning through the AP’s list of stories and deciding he’d read them later .
He flipped open his notebook , checked his notes from the police report on the robbery , and called the station .
The robbery had happened during second shift , which would n't report until mid-afternoon , but Nick wanted to leave a message for the investigating officer to call him .
He had n't met the officer before , Detective Rich Tagget , and was unsure if he would get a call back .
Cops were like that .
He leaned back into his chair and took a sip of his coffee .
The Monster .
From out of nowhere it had turned the corner in his dream and begun lumbering toward him .
He had been sitting on the street corner next to the bus stop waiting for the 61B to take him somewhere -- where ?
He could n't remember : dreams are like that -- when he looked up at the dream night sky and realized the street was deserted and the bus would not be coming .
And then the Monster turned the corner and walked down the middle of the street , its massive head looking up , left , right , down .
Its long arms hung slackly at its side and its fur was matted down .
Nick hid behind the bumper of a nearby car and peeked through the car 's windows to watch as the Monster took a dozen steps , stopped , and repeated its search sequence .
It took the Monster forever to move down the street toward Nick and he had been afraid to move away from the car and be seen , to be pursued through an urban dreamscape of his own nightmarish contriving .
Again .
So he had hidden .
When the Monster drew close , he had crawled around the other side of the car into the space between the car and the curb , looking underneath the car at the Monster 's hairy feet .
It had taken forever before the Monster reached the mid-point of the next block , its broad back clumped with fur as if it had just left its own bed .
Nick had slipped away from the car and quickly dashed up the street to his apartment .
In his dream he had stood in his apartment looking out the living room window at the coffee shop patio and had frozen as the Monster returned to the corner where the coffee shop was , stared at the curb where moments earlier he had cowered , and turned to look up the street .
Then the Monster looked up into his dream apartment , its crimson eyes widening for a moment as it cocked its head to the side .
And then Nick had awoke .
`` Nick , pick up your phone , man . ''
Nick started .
His phone buzzed again and he looked away from his computer screen at Paul , one of the county government reporters , who was half-standing out of his chair so that he could get Nick 's attention .
`` Newsroom , Nick Case , '' Nick said as he placed the handset to his head .
`` Yeah , this is Detective Tagget .
You called ? ''
The detective 's voice was mellow and low pitched .
`` Hey , yeah .
Thanks for calling me back .
I did n't think you 'd be getting in until later . ''
`` Surprise , I guess .
What do you need ? ''
`` I need some information that was n't on a police report about a robbery .
Some paintings were stolen from somebody 's house last night around ten o'clock , but that 's all the police report says , '' Nick said .
`` Last night ?
That was yesterday morning .
Ten-hundred hours , not 10 PM .
We switched back to military time on our reports the other day to keep everything standard .
It was getting too confusing to use civilian time on the public reports but military time everywhere else .
Mistakes were getting made , '' Tagget said .
`` Oh , well ... ” Nick said , suddenly chagrined at not having known something so obvious about his beat .
“So , what kind of paintings were stolen ? ''
Tagget was silent for a second on the other end of the line .
`` Listen , I really ca n't give you any more information than was on the report .
Suffice it to say somebody had a couple of paintings taken from their private collection . ''
`` It ca n't be that big a deal .
How can you just put no name , address or anything on a report ?
I just want to know if it 's worth doing a human interest story .
You know , a `` If you have any information about Joe Blow 's favorite paintings , call the police '' kind of story .
If there is a story , '' Nick said , sipping his coffee and staring back down at the street through the window .
`` After all , the incident report is a public document . ''
Tagget was silent for another moment .
Both of them knew that Tagget could make it next to impossible for Nick to get the report , if Tagget wanted to : Public reports and public information were two entirely different things as far as the police were concerned .
`` I 'll tell you what .
Let me give the guy a call , maybe he 's changed his mind about it .
I 'll tell him what you told me about maybe writing a story .
If he says okay , I 'll get back to you , '' Tagget said .
`` Thanks . ''
`` Yeah , bye . ''
Nick hung up , grabbed a notebook from the pile on the corner of his desk and stopped to talk to his editor .
`` John , I 'm going to go skulk around some art galleries , see if anybody knows anything about somebody getting some paintings ripped off yesterday morning . ''
John looked up from his screen .
`` Paintings ? ''
`` Yeah .
The police do n't want to release any information on it , yet , but somebody near Precinct Six got some paintings stolen .
They might be valuable , might not , but the victim reported it and requested anonymity and no details about the paintings , so ... '' '' Have fun , '' John said and returned to his screen .
The Gallery sat behind a row of picture windows and was framed on the right side by a discount movie theater and on the left by a thrift store masquerading as an antique shop .
The gallery dealt mostly with original works by local area artists , but occasionally offered lesser-known works by somewhat famous artists and doodles by famous painters that only name-dropping dilettantes would want .
All of the paintings were expensive and none were extraordinary , which caused Nick to quickly conclude where the term `` starving artist '' was born .
The air-conditioned interior was a welcome relief from the early morning humidity hugging the air outside , and Nick stood for a moment in the middle of the gallery slowly assessing the artwork and allowing the coolness to settle on the sweat that had slicked his lower back during the drive from the office .
It was only a few more moments before a woman with shoulder-length black hair appeared from around a corner with a much-practiced smile stretched across her lips .
I think I’d like to tell that part of the story in order , too .
But suffice it to say she loves her heavy metal rock , she is proficient with a crossbow , and we’re pretty sure that Hemp digs her .
And besides that , Gem and I are convinced that her apprenticeship with Hemp in the lab isn’t solely because she has a fascination with science .
Wow .
All that shit happened in less than four days .
Unbelievable .
So you’ll meet Charlie later .
But with or without a woman , Hemp has his lab , and it really is his world .
Like a kid at Disneyland , he has to force himself to leave it , or be dragged out .
No radio taps from Gem or Charlie so far , and that’s good .
If they double tap me , I won’t be good for shit until the triple comes .
In fact , I’m already about to jump out of my skin and into my truck .
So while Gem and Charlie are out hunting-gathering , Hemp’s in the mobile lab , and I’m working on this , you ought to get to know me .
I’m writing this down , and I’m trying to include all the words exchanged between us along the way so you can see how we dealt with things .
This was all new , so we had nothing at all upon which to base how we should react to anything that happened .
Now , we’ve got lots to do , so there’s not a ton of time for me to get into the beginning of this – well , my beginning .
Everyone’s is different .
Equally horrible , I’m sure – I don’t have any copyright on that shit – but different .
With a name like Flex , people remember me .
But just because of the name .
Physically , I’m nothing too oddball .
Six feet tall , medium build .
45 years old .
I got a square jaw and a goatee , green eyes .
I keep my hair trimmed short because Gem or I do the cutting and it’s easier .
Overall , I’m your generic caucasian male .
Jamie was born about six years after me .
She’ll be thirty-nine on her next birthday , but one way or the other , I’m pretty sure she won’t be celebrating it .
Right now I’m in Georgia , back home .
And since it’s July , it’s hot .
But just over three days ago , when I first found out that Jamie needed my help , I jammed to Florida .
And since I can only tell this part of the story from my perspective , then that’s what you’re gon na hear .
Brace yourself .
It’s fucked up .
CHAPTER ONE Flex Sheridan’s Chronicle Late June , 2011 “Hey , Flex , ” her voice said , recognizing my number on her cell phone .
She sounded tired .
“Afternoon , beautiful .
How are my girls ?
I was thinking about heading down to see you guys .
It’s been six months.” Jamie sighed .
“I’m not sure now’s a good time , Flex .
Jack and the girls are fine , but I have a headache .
A doozie.” She sounded more distracted than disappointed .
“That sucks , ” I said .
“Migraine ? ” There was a pause on the line .
“Yes and no .
not really .
Not the normal one.” “What do you mean ? ” “Well , you know how .
fuck !
Fuck ! ” “Jamie , what’s wrong ? ” She never cussed , and two fucks in a row was unheard of .
There was more silence .
“Jamie ? ” “I’m here , ” her voice came , weaker .
“I didn’t have the prisms , you know ?
How I always see prisms in my peripheral vision before one of these comes on ?
I felt restless , not able to sleep , but having dreams while I was wide awake , like fantasies of .
of .
I hate to even say it , but , like cannibalism .
Scared the heck out of me , Flex .
I don’t .
” She trailed off again .
I waited , but had to prompt her .
“Like what ?
Nightmares ? ” I asked .
“I don’t know .
Not like normal nightmares .
These were like flashes .
Pictures .
Images .
Just brief , terrible .
Fuck !
Hold on.” “Jamie , are you okay ?
You should be in bed ! ” The line was still live , but she said nothing .
I heard her breathing , raspy , short .
“Flex ? ” She was back .
“I’m here , Jamie.” “I’m not right , '' she said , sounding distracted .
`` I’m so fucking hungry .
I’m ravenous , Flex .
Like I’m starving ! ” “And you’re dropping the F-bomb more than I’ve ever heard you .
What’s that about ? ” “If you knew , Flex .
If you knew how this felt !
The dreams were terrible , dark visions of .
I don’t know .
Hell , maybe .
Darkness .
Evil .
I felt it .
I rationalized by the advent of indoor plumbing , it was the only available area on the first floor that wouldn’t compromise the original layout .
Shutting the bathroom door , I turned my attention to the wide hall behind me .
It was large enough to park a car in and at the end was a set of heavy double doors .
Walking down it , to my left was a curved doorway to the dining room and to the right another opening to the room with the piano .
The double doors at the end were heavy , paneled in rich wood , and almost reached the tall ceiling .
The black metal knobs almost seemed too weak to open them , but one good pull and the doors opened to an empty library twinkling with dust particles catching the light .
The room glowed orange with the light of the setting sun coming through the windows as I stepped inside .
The arched empty shelves cried out to be filled with books , looking abandoned and forgotten .
I inhaled deeply ; noting the rich scent of cigars seemed to cling to the freshly painted walls .
I stepped around the boxes from Dad’s little home office at the townhouse and went across the room to the windows where the garden trees and shrubs fluttered in the breeze .
The wind tore random leaves loose to blow over the patio just outside the French doors .
As I was leaving , a large area of the floor caught my eye where the wood floor had faded nearly white .
The splotchy pattern at first made me think a careless worker had spilled paint , but when I got down on my knees to examine it closer , I could see it was in the wood trapped under the varnish .
What would cause that ?
I reached out to touch the peculiar stain .
As my finger touched the slick surface of the wood , a vibrating electric shock traveled up my hand and into my arm .
My eyes instantly began to water and my ears rang .
I pulled my hand back and clutched it to me .
I was too shocked to even cry out .
What was that ?
Jumping to my feet , I looked down at the spot on the floor and backed away .
A chill ran up my spine and I broke out in a clammy sweat .
Even though it was silly , I backed out of the library and closed the doors .
I heard Dad outside on the porch talking to some random neighbor about the sturdiness of the foundation as I sneaked back around and went up the staircase .
Each riser gave a loud creak and pop as I went up to the second floor .
When I got to the top of the staircase I turned to the left and walked back toward the front of the house where my room looked out into one of the oak trees in the front yard .
My bed sat under that window with its new mattress a glaring bare white .
All the boxes from our townhouse with my name on them were stacked near my dresser by the door , but I hesitated to unpack anything .
I went over to the window that looked out over the sprawling yard and narrow drive .
Through the leafy screen , in the parallel universe of Corydon , traffic was already thinning as if it were the middle of the night .
It was the perfect example of how life moved at a different pace here .
It might be nice to visit a place so charmingly out of step with the rest of the world , but it just wasn’t normal to live in such a parody .
I turned away from the window and took in my new surroundings .
There was nothing familiar about this room .
It held other people’s memories in its plastered walls .
How long would it take for this room to seem like it really belonged to me ?
Downstairs my Dad came in , the sound of the front door opening and closing vibrated up the walls to the second floor , I listened for the sound of his steps on the staircase , but it never came .
He went to the left where the flat screen waited , no doubt much more tempting than a conversation with his pouting daughter .
I breathed a sigh of relief .
I loved my Dad and knew that he thought he was doing what was best for us , but I just wasn’t in the mood to pretend anymore .
With him downstairs and occupied with CNN , I could sit on the edge of my bed and let a few tears escape from the corners of my eyes .
I sat there , listening to the distant chatter of the television and the house creaking , trying not to think about school tomorrow .
Each time it crossed my mind , I got a hollow and sick feeling in the pit of my stomach .
Deep down I just knew it was going to be awful .
Even though it was the start of the new school year and tomorrow would be everyone’s first day , I felt at a definite disadvantage .
I almost regretted that I didn’t come here with Dad at least a few times over the summer to where maybe I could have met at least one or two people before starting school .
Corydon Central High School was the one and only high school in the Corydon area .
There would be no second chances , no alternatives .
I would either fit in and make it or I wouldn’t , and the odds were stacked against me .
The other students had known each other since grade school ; everyone would know everyone , except me .
In my school back in Indianapolis , I saw how everyone treated new students .
They were a curiosity for about a week and then the decision was made as to if they were worthy to be with the popular crowd or doomed to obscurity .
I didn’t hold out much hope for myself .
At seventeen , I didn’t have what it took to be popular .
I wasn’t blond , I wasn’t the outgoing student government type , and I wasn’t the sporty athlete .
What chance did I have ?
I was only me , somewhat pale , and while not ugly , I was far from a vision of teenage perfection .
In my opinion , my hair was just a mousy brown , sadly lacking the depth of ebony or chestnut and my eyes were merely a boring blue .
I was plain and forgettable ; no one would even notice me .
That empty sick feeling came over me again .
In a big school it was easy to fade into the background , but I didn’t know if that would be possible here .
I tried not to think about it anymore .
Chapter 2 It wasn’t a restful night .
The gentle end of summer breeze kept the oak tree branches scraping at the window like bony fingers .
I tossed and turned all night , pulling the blankets over my head and covering my ears with my hands , but it was still well after midnight before I fell asleep .
When I awoke on the first day of school , a thick mist clung to the trees out my window .
I couldn’t see through the branches to know if it was raining or if it was still the dew from the night before .
I’d have to ask Dad about getting someone to trim some of the branches so I could at least see the ground below .
Dad was waiting in the antiquated kitchen with a bowl of cereal and milk from a plastic cooler .
From the looks of the refrigerator squatting near the stove , the last time it was running was a decade or so before Woodstock .
When my Mom was alive , she made breakfast a grand affair of bacon , eggs , and made from scratch pancakes for the first day of school .
She always called it my “good luck” breakfast .
I tried not to miss it .
“Ready for your big day ? ” Dad asked with a sappy grin .
“You bet , ” I replied with a forced smile .
I took a set at the oversized kitchen table .
“Can’t wait.” Dad sat down across from me and sighed , “Just try to give it a chance .
I’m sure it won’t be as bad as you think.” In an instant the rush of guilt flowed over me .
He was trying so hard and I was acting like a spoiled brat .
My Mom would be so disappointed in me .
“I’m sure it will be great.” I countered , really trying to sound cheerful .
The effect sounded almost comical to my critical ears .
He smiled as if he believed my ruse , “That’s my girl.” I choked down my breakfast while he leaned against an ancient white stove watching me .
Shoving the last spoonful of my mushy feast into my mouth , I smiled as I stretched past him to put my bowl in the sink .
“What ?
Why are you looking at me like that ? ” “It’s nothing , ” He replied in a tight voice .
“I was just thinking of how much you look like your mother now.” I didn’t mean to , but I flinched .
I sensed her absence acutely and resented being reminded of it .
A suffocating silence fell between us until I stretched my face into a smile like I knew she would have wanted me to and gathered my things .
“Wish me luck , ” I said as I walked toward the door , not waiting to see if he actually would .
The bright stillness of the morning met me when I stepped out on the porch .
I walked down the drive to the sidewalk and looked around .
The entire town seemed to still be sleeping ; even the scant traffic was quiet as it passed .
It didn’t even seem real .
Towns like this belonged in movies , the cheap dollar matinee kind featuring white faced zombies chasing buxom blondes .
I didn’t know to be charmed or frightened .
I didn’t hurry .
I just sort of walked along , looking at the old houses and trying to guess what the owners of them looked like or what they did for a living .
For some reason I couldn’t get past the idea of a lot of duck hunting males married to a bunch of garden party ladies .
By the time I reached the corner I began to see a few kids near my age leaving their homes with books in hand .
He took her hand and led her out of the hip music venue and out onto the sidewalk of Broadway .
`` Actually would you mind if I took my car ? ''
She asked .
`` Yeah sure , how about we go separately to my place ? ''
He took her hand and kissed it .
For the first time that night she became aware of just how cold he felt .
`` Um ... Ok. Where do you live ? ''
`` Off of Boulder and Platte .
I 'm in one of those new condos . ''
She smiled .
`` Those are expensive .
What do you do for a living ? ''
This time it was Malcolm 's turn to give his best smiley face `` I am a graphic artist by trade .
But professionally , I 'm a lady killer . ''
He grabbed a hold of Sarah and hugged her hard .
She could smell the strong tinge of alcohol permeating from his every pore .
The bitter aromas of ethanol and this odd cold sweat had made her stomach contract and expand with the contents being pushed up her esophagus .
`` I bet you are . ''
She said , trying to catch her breath as he held onto her with more force than she was used to .
He pulled her closer and could feel a big erection in his pants .
It would have been exciting if he were n't so damn cold .
Alcohol constricts the blood vessels , she reasoned , it 's just his blood circulation slowing down and the frigid January air .
`` Let me text you my address . ''
Malcolm got out his Blackberry cell phone and asked her for her contact info .
Once he procured the ten digit number he dutifully gave her the directions .
`` I 'll be waiting outside the indoor parking lot for you . ''
He grabbed a hold of her head with both hands and kissed her on the lips .
She made a move to slip him her tongue but could n't get passed his teeth .
He let go and happily told her `` Not now .
Save it for later . ''
With a salute he stumbled down north on Broadway toward his car on sixth .
She turned around and headed to the parking lot in the rear of the Hi Dive .
She got into her red Sedan and waited for about fifteen minutes , listening to the new Death Cab for Cutie album on her MP3 player .
After some thought she turned the ignition and pulled out of the parking space and onto Broadway , which is a one way street going south .
With some deft maneuvering , she got onto Lincoln one block east and headed north toward the city .
When she got there he was standing in the parking garage next to his new white Volkswagen Rabbit as promised .
She parked and got out and he seemingly floated toward her as if he were on a cloud .
It was entrancing and when he got to her he kissed her on the forehead .
`` I 'm happy you got here safely . ''
He looked her into the eyes .
She never noticed how bright green they were until now .
`` Any damage to be done should be done by me . ''
He smiled and took her hand , leading her through the entrance and to an elevator on the right of the lobby .
She was struck by the fantastic white and green paint job of the walls and the soft manila shag carpeting .
She decided to get him good and excited before they even got to the apartment and grabbed a hold of his crotch .
He just stood there against the hallway wall , enjoying himself while she groped around his dick through the tight denim jeans he had on .
He could n't wait to get up to his room and get out her out of those hip hugging pants and t-shirt .
She had left her black zip hoodie in her car .
Once they reached the fourth floor he led her by the hand toward room 430 .
He fumbled for his keys like a drunken , horny frat boy and opened his front door .
To her amazement she could see that he barely had any furniture .
All that was present was a thirty two inch flat screen TV supported by a blue milk crate and a small black futon .
Sarah cringed .
`` You have a bed , right ? ''
Malcolm pulled her toward him and wrapped his body around hers ; again her breath was taken away by the embrace .
`` Of course I do . ''
His lips locked with hers .
`` And it 's a nice bed too . ''
He paused .
`` I 'm not sure if my roommate is here though . ''
He went down the dimly lit hallway and knocked on the second door on the left .
After about a minute of heavy pounding he turned back toward Sarah and laughed .
`` He 's a low level office assistant for a big shot lawyer .
Probably out of town helping sue God knows who . ''
Sarah smiled .
Malcolm took off his navy blue sport coat with all the band buttons and threw it on the futon in the large living area .
Without the coat she could see just how skinny he actually was .
He looked borderline anorexic and she could imagine his hip bones poking her in her legs during sex .
The thought gave her shivers .
`` So where 's the bedroom ? ''
Sarah asked .
The place looked like they 'd just moved in , except there were not boxes to be seen .
The only sign of wealth was the flat screen and about six or seven Blu Ray DVD 's on the floor .
`` Um ... '' Malcolm was at a loss .
`` Do n't you want to do anything else first ?
Are you sure you want to go straight into there ? ''
He did n't necessarily object to the idea but it was a first .
Usually he had to work for these sorts of things .
The fun of it was the chase ( at least that’s what he told himself when the other party wasn’t as eager as he was at that particular point in time ) .
He liked to romance a little , he wanted to feel like a gentlemen before he got his dick wet .
`` Nope , I felt what was down there and I 'm all excited now . ''
She blew him a kiss .
He smiled in response .
`` Do you have any rope or anything that could be used as rope ? ''
She asked .
`` You want to be tied up ? ''
He asked cautiously .
Although after a second of thought he seemed to get excited by the idea .
`` No . ''
She said , her grin grew into a straight and serious face .
`` It 's for you . ''
She walked over to him and put her right hand on his cold , pale face .
It sent electric shocks throughout her , like biting into an electric eel .
She had to pull away before she went into little convulsions .
`` But ... '' Malcolm said , disappointed .
`` I like being on top . ''
He looked very disappointed in the idea .
She would have none of it though .
Sarah came closer and grabbed his balls through his pants and held on tightly , making him get harder than he already was .
`` You want to fuck me right ? ''
My aunt fought hard for it , being my mother 's sister and a church-going woman .
She felt it her duty as a Christian to do so .
I did not mind Aunt Mae .
She was a good woman and could bake the best oatmeal cookies anyone had ever tasted .
She won the first prize at the county fair for her cookies every year for as long as I can remember .
She lived alone now , but was never really alone since she was such an active community member .
Many people in this town knew her and loved her for her kind heart , gentle words and outrageous cooking .
Her husband had died in that Vietnam War .
She never spoke to me about it , and I had enough respect for her not to ask .
I could see the deep look of sorrow and loneliness etched on her face any time she looked at one of many pictures of him , that were hung or placed around the house .
She would make sure that I was almost always busy doing something constructive with my free time when I was not studying for school .
`` Idle hands are the devil 's playground , '' she was fond of saying to me .
I did not tell Aunt Mae or anyone else , for that matter , that I had lost any faith I had in god the day my mom and dad were brutally murdered .
As far as my dear old Aunt Mae knew , I was her sister 's darling little boy who went to church with her every Sunday , sang hymns and prayed every day .
These things were meaningless to me anymore .
If the adults wanted to be foolish enough to think that god was out there looking over them and protecting them every day , that 's fine .
As for me , I knew better than that now .
There was just good , bad and evil .
This I knew because I had felt evil .
I felt it when it comes in ... ..the Wave .
Chapter 2 : P.F.C. , Anthony J. Pruitt , 1946-1971 A police investigation turned up that the gunman really was a marine .
He was Private First Class , Anthony J. Pruitt , United States Marine Corps .
It would only be fair to Mr. Pruitt to tell of the circumstances that led up to the crime that would put an end to his tormented mind .
He had enlisted in the Marines shortly after the Vietnam war broke out .
He was an honor student in high school and a very patriotic young man .
He felt it his duty to enlist in the Marines , and fight for his country .
He almost immediately got the English Bulldog tattoo with the words `` Semper Fidelis '' beneath it .
The English Bulldog was deeply rooted in the Marine Corps .
During WWII , the Germans referred to the Marine Corps as `` teufel hunden '' , meaning `` devil dogs , '' undoubtedly referring to their fighting ability .
Marines are known to have a fierce almost fanatical loyalty to their duty .
They are one of the most highly respected fighting forces on earth .
`` Semper Fidelis '' is ...
Translated from Latin ; `` Always Faithful . ''
Just after one month in Vietnam , he was captured along with two of his comrades in arms .
After waking to find himself naked and strapped down to a table .
He saw his two comrades , one to his left and the other to his right .
Both were strapped to a table , just as he was , and both were dead .
There was a large pool of crimson red blood under each table , entrails dangling from their sides , lying on the floor beneath them .
He could see a hole about the size of a mans fist in the side of the corpse to his right .
`` You are awake , GI Joe , good , '' a Viet Cong soldier was standing in front of him .
The man was standing under a single light bulb , hanging from the ceiling by a thick cord .
He stood just in front of the light , so as his features could not be seen , a faceless talking shadow-man .
`` You will tell me where your troops are located , yes GI Joe ? , '' a puff of smoke billowed up around his head from an unseen cigarette in his mouth .
Although terrified , private Pruitt remained silent , determined not to betray his Platoon or his country .
`` OK GI Joe , we will see how brave you are , '' snapping his fingers into the air above his head .
Giving what sounded like an order to some unseen ally .
Out of the shadows stepped another Viet Cong soldier , in his hands was a small metal cage about 10 inches in width and height .
There was a movement from within the cage , Pvt Pruitt could hear a low squeaking sound .
As the cage came closer to him , he could now see that it was a very large and nervous rat .
`` You will tell me where your troops are located , GI Joe , '' pausing for an answer .
`` Very well GI Joe , you may join your friends .
This will be most unpleasant for you GI Joe . ''
The shadow-man snapped his fingers once more .
The other soldier lowered the cage down and placed it on Pvt Pruitt 's stomach .
The rat became more agitated sensing the mans body so close to it .
`` Now GI Joe , I will explain , you see your new friend has not eaten in days , and the guards like to poke at him with sticks and cigarettes . ''
Pruitt was so scared he could hardly speak .
He felt he was going to defecate uncontrollably .
He surprised even himself to hear his words come out , `` Go to hell you filthy gook . ''
Those words would seal his fate forever .
`` You will die screaming , like the pig that you are GI Joe , '' snapping his fingers again .
The soldier returned from the shadows once more , this time carrying a thick black cast-iron pot .
It was filled with red hot coals , and a pair of metal tongs .
`` Now GI Joe ... next we will place the hot coals on top of the cage .
The intense heat will make your new friend go crazy .
He will do anything to escape from the cage before he catches on fire and burns to death .
And do remember GI Joe , he is very hungry as I have mentioned . ''
Raising his hand and waiving it through the air , speaking to the other soldier , he says , `` Remove the tray . ''
The soldier slowly slides a metal tray that was separating the rat in the cage from Pvt Pruitt 's stomach .
The rat immediately started biting and gnawing at Pruitt 's stomach , burrowing into him .
The crazed rat frantically trying to get away from the searing heat of the red hot coals .
Pruitt screamed in pain and terror as he could feel the rat beginning to enter his stomach .
Blood sprayed out of the wound , the rat chewing and scratching feverishly to escape .
Pruitt 's screams filled the small shack .
Suddenly , there was a tremendous explosion .
The soldiers , Pvt Pruitt and the cage with the rat in it sent flying through the air in a storm of dirt , wood and rock .
A large mortar round struck just short of the bamboo shed that he was being held captive in .
Within minutes American troops were all over the area .
It was not just the one shed , but an entire Viet Cong stronghold .
No doubt a major target for our troops if they were to move onward .
Pruitt slowly lifted his head .
The right side of his face badly burned by the explosion .
The hair singed completely off of his head .
He could see a viet cong soldier officer a few feet away from him , a large bamboo pole impaling the man 's stomach , exiting through his neck .
A cigarette still burned in his mouth , held tightly in between his teeth .
The shadow-man no doubt , Pruitt whispered , `` Good for you , you son of a bitch .
I hope you burn in hell . ''
One of the American soldiers sifting through the rubble notices Pruitt and yells , `` Medic ! ... I need a medic over here ... we 've got wounded ! ''
Just before passing out , Pruitt manages to look up at the G.I calling for help , '' Thank you ... '' One of the other soldiers looks over , `` Jesus Christ .
This was one of those rat rooms .
They were using rats on them to get information . ''
From behind him could be heard the sound of a soldier vomiting .
Private Pruitt would spend a year in a military hospital for his wounds and convalescing .
The surgeons at a M.A.S.H unit had to remove the dead rat 's body from within Pruitt 's stomach , killed by the concussion of the blast .
Private Pruitt himself suffered from three fractured ribs , a broken leg , a sprained wrist and two missing fingers .
He also had to have numerous pieces of debris removed , which became shrapnel after the mortar attack .
However , the most damage he incurred was to his face .
His right eye was completely gone , and the entire upper-right side of his face was horribly scared by burns .
Aside from screaming in the night , Pruitt never spoke a word to anyone at the hospital .
When told his family was being notified , he went into a rage , until he was assured they would not come to see him , not until he was ready .
I glanced over and saw Elsie peering around the corner of the kitchen doorway .
She 'd cut her dark hair still shorter and bobbed it still tighter , I noticed .
When we 'd moved into the neighbourhood , she 'd had long , drabby blond hair .
We all said hello to her and she disappeared a moment , then came into the room with a tray of drinks in her hands .
She was wearing a red , netlike dress which clung tightly to the curves of her plump body .
When she bent over to put the tray down on the blondwood coffee table , the bosom of the dress slipped away from her tight , black brassiere .
I noticed Frank 's pointed stare , then Elsie straightened up with a brassy , hostess like smile and looked at Phil .
Anne introduced them .
`` Hel- lo , '' Elsie said .
`` I 'm so glad you could come . ''
She looked at us .
`` Well , '' she said , `` name your poison . ''
What happened that evening up to the point when it all began is not important .
There were the usual peregrinations to the kitchen and the bathroom ; the usual breaking up and re-gathering of small groups - the women , the men , Frank , Phil and myself , Elizabeth and Anne , Elsie and Phil , Ron and me-and so on ; the drifting knots of conversation that take place at any get-together .
There was record music and a little sporadic attempt at dancing .
There was Candy stumbling into the living room , blinking and numb with only half-broken sleep ; being tucked back into her bed .
There were the expected personality displays-Frank , cynical and bored ; Elizabeth , quietly radiant in her pregnancy ; Phil , amusing and quick ; Ron , mute and affable ; Anne , soft-spoken and casual ; Elsie , bouncing and strainedly vivacious .
One bit of conversation I remember : I was just about to go next door to check on Richard when Elsie said something about our getting a baby-sitter .
`` It does n't matter when you just go next door like this , '' she said , `` but you do have to get out once in a while . ''
Once in a while , to Elsie , meant an average of four nights a week .
`` We 'd like to , '' Anne said , `` but we just have n't been able to find one . ''
`` Try ours , '' said Elsie : `` She 's a nice kid and real reliable . ''
That was when I left and checked on Richard-and had one of my many night time adorations ; that standing in semi-darkness over your child 's crib and staring down at him .
Nothing else .
Just standing there and staring down at his little sleep flushed face and feeling that almost overwhelming rush of absolute love in yourself .
Sensing something close to holy in the same little being that nearly drove you out of your mind that very afternoon .
I turned up the heat a little then and went back to Elsie 's house .
They were talking about hypnotism .
I say they but , outside of Phil , Anne and maybe Frank , no one there knew the least thing about it .
Primarily , it was a dissertation by Phil on one of his favourite topics .
`` Oh , I do n't believe that , '' Elsie said as I sat down beside Anne and whispered that Richard was fine .
`` People who say they were hypnotized were n't , really . ''
`` Of course they were , '' Phil said .
`` If they were n't , how could they have hatpins jabbed into their throats without bleeding ?
Without even crying out ? ''
Elsie turned her head halfway to the side and looked at Phil in that overdone , accusingly dubious way that people affect when they have to bolster their own uncertain doubts .
`` Did you ever really see anyone get a hatpin jabbed in their throat ? ''
she said .
`` I 've had a five-inch hatpin in my throat , '' Phil answered .
`` And , once , I put one halfway through a friend of mine 's arm at school-after I 'd hypnotized him . ''
Elsie shuddered histrionically .
`` Uhh , '' she said , `` how awful '' '' Not at all , '' Phil said with that casual tone undergraduates love to affect when they are flicking off intellectual bomb-shells .
`` I did n't feel a thing and neither did my friend . ''
`` Oh , you 're just making that up , '' Elsie said , studiedly disbelieving .
`` Not at all , '' said Phil .
It was Frank who gave it the final , toppling push .
`` All right , '' he said , `` let 's see you hypnotize somebody then . ''
He squeezed out one of his faintly cruel smiles .
`` Hypnotize Elsie , '' he said .
`` Oh , no you do n't ! ''
Elsie squealed .
`` I 'm not going to do terrible things in front of everybody . ''
`` I thought you did n't believe in it , '' Phil said , amusedly .
`` I do n't , I do n't , '' she insisted .
`` But ... well , not me . ''
Frank 's dark eyes moved .
`` All right , '' he said , `` who 's going to be hypnotized ? ''
`` I would n't suggest me unless we want to spend the whole night here , '' Anne said .
`` Phil used to waste hours trying to hypnotize me . ''
`` You 're a lousy subject , that 's all , '' Phil said , grinning at her .
`` Okay , who 's it gon na be then ? ''
Frank persisted .
`` How about you , Lizzie ? ''
`` Oh ... '' Elizabeth lowered her eyes and smiled embarrassedly .
`` We promise not to make you take your clothes off , '' Frank said .
`` Frank . ''
Elizabeth was thirty-one but she still blushed like a little girl .
She would n't look at anybody .
Elsie giggled .
Frank looked only vaguely pleased .
Elizabeth was too easy a mark for him .
`` Come on , Elsie , '' he said , `` be a sport .
Let him put you under .
We wo n't make you do a strip tease on the kitchen table . ''
`` You- '' Ron started to say .
`` Oh , you 're awful ! ''
Elsie said , delighted .
`` What were you going to say , Ron ? ''
I asked .
Ron swallowed .
`` I-I was going to ask Phil , '' he said , `` you-ca n't make someone-do what they do n't want to do , can you ?
I mean-what they would n't do ?
If they were awake , I mean . ''
`` Oh , what do you know about hypnotism , Ronny ? ''
Elsie asked , trying to sound pleasantly amused .
The acidity still came through .
`` Well , it 's true and it is n't true , '' Phil said .
`` You ca n't make a subject break his own moral code .
But you can make almost any act fit into his moral code . ''
`` How do you mean ? ''
Frank asked .
`` This sounds promising . ''
`` Well , for instance , '' Phil said , `` if I hypnotized your wife- '' '' You could make her do something wicked ? ''
Frank asked , looking at Elizabeth pointedly .
`` Frank , please , '' she almost whispered .
`` Say I put a loaded gun in her hand , '' Phil said , `` and told her to shoot you .
She would n't do it . ''
`` That 's what you think , '' Frank said , snickering .
I looked at Elizabeth again and saw her swallowing dryly .
She was one of those pale and pitiable creatures who seem constantly vulnerable to hurt .
`` I am not hurt . ''
He stood back up , and I could see the relief on his face .
He turned away from the cameras , as if he thought he 'd get off that easily .
I knew better .
`` But was n't it your blood on the princess ? ''
His hand was gripping the pommel of his short sword .
Touching his weapons unnecessarily was a sign of nerves .
He leaned over the mike again , and this time he bumped my bad shoulder with his body .
I doubted the press saw such a small movement , but it was too clumsy for words , for Frost .
He braced a hand flat against the table , steadying himself .
He turned eyes the grey of a winter sky to me .
The look asked silently , `` Did I hurt you ? ''
I mouthed , no .
He let out a sigh and leaned back to the microphone .
`` Yes , it was my blood . ''
He actually stood back up , as if that would satisfy them .
He should have known better .
He had been decorative muscle for the queen at enough of these over the years to know that he was being a little too concise .
At least he did n't try to go back to his spot behind me this time .
A reporter I did know , Simon McCracken , was next .
He 'd covered the faerie courts for years .
`` Frost , if you are not hurt , then where did your blood come from and how did it get on the princess ? ''
He knew how to word the question just right , so we could n't tap-dance around it .
The sidhe do n't lie .
We 'll paint the truth red , purple , and green , and convince you that black is white , but we wo n't actually lie .
Frost leaned over the mike again , his hand pressed to the table .
He 'd moved minutely closer to me , close enough that his pants leg touched my skirt .
His sword was almost trapped between our bodies .
That would be bad if he had to draw the weapon .
I looked at his hand , so big and strong on the table , and realized his fingertips were mottled .
He was gripping the table the way you grip a podium when you 're nervous .
`` I was shot . ''
He had to clear his throat sharply to continue .
I turned my head just enough to see that perfect profile , and realized it was more than nerves .
Frost , the queen 's Killing Frost , was afraid .
Afraid of public speaking .
Oh , my .
`` I have healed .
My blood covered the princess when I shielded her from harm . ''
He started to stand back up , but I touched his arm .
I covered the mike with my hand , and leaned in against him , so I could whisper against the curve of his ear .
I took in a deep breath of the scent of his skin , and said , `` Kneel or sit . ''
His breath went out so deep that his shoulders moved with it .
But he knelt on one knee beside me .
I moved the microphone a little closer to him .
I slid my hand under the back of his jacket , so that I could lay my hand against the curve of his back , just below the side sweep of the big sword sheath .
When fey are nervous , any fey , we take comfort from touching one another .
Even the mighty sidhe feel better with a little contact , though not all of us will admit it for fear of blurring the line between royalty and commoner .
I had too much lesser fey blood in my veins to worry about it .
I could feel the sweat that was beginning to trickle down his spine .
Madeline started to come closer to us .
I shook my head .
She gave me a questioning look but did n't argue .
She picked another question from the throng .
`` So you took a bullet to protect Princess Meredith ? ''
I leaned into the mike , putting my face very close to Frost 's , touching carefully , so I did n't get makeup on him .
The cameras exploded in bursts of white light .
Frost jumped , and I knew that was going to be visible to the cameras .
Oh , well .
We were blinded , vision blurred in bursts of white and blue spots .
His muscles tightened , but I would n't have known it if I had n't been touching him .
`` Hi , Sarah , and yes , he took a bullet for me , '' I said .
I think Sarah said `` Hi , Princess '' back , but I could n't be sure , since I still could n't see well enough , and the noise of so many voices was too confusing .
I 'd learned to use names when I knew them .
It made everyone feel more friendly .
And you need all the friendly you can get at a press conference .
`` Frost , were you afraid ? ''
He relaxed minutely against me , into the touch of my hand and my face .
`` Yes , '' he said .
`` Afraid to die , '' someone yelled out without being called on .
Frost answered the question anyway .
`` No . ''
Madeline called on someone , who asked , `` Then what were you afraid of ? ''
`` I was afraid Meredith would be harmed . ''
He licked his lips , and tensed again .
I realized he 'd used my name without my title .
A faux pas for a bodyguard , but of course , he was more than that .
Every guard was technically in the running to be prince to my princess .
But we were sidhe , and we do n't marry until we 're pregnant .
A nonfertile couple is not allowed to wed , so the guards were doing more than just `` guarding '' my body .
`` Frost , would you give your life for the princess ? ''
He answered without hesitation .
`` Of course . ''
His tone said clearly that that had been a silly question .
A reporter in back who had a television camera next to him asked the next question .
`` Frost , how did you heal a gunshot wound in less than twenty-four hours ? ''
Frost gave another deep , shoulder-moving sigh .
`` I am a warrior of the sidhe . ''
The reporters waited for him to add more , but I knew he would n't .
To Frost , the fact that he was sidhe was all the answer he needed .
It had been only a through and through bullet wound from a handgun and no special ammunition .
It would take a great deal more than that to stop a warrior of the sidhe .
I hid my smile and started to lean into the mike , to help explain that to the press , when the sweat along his spine suddenly stopped being wet and warm .
It was as if a line of cold air swept down his back .
Cold enough that I moved my hand away , startled .
I glanced down at his big hand on the table and saw what I 'd feared .
A white rime of frost was drifting out from his hand .
I thanked Goddess that the cloth on the table was white .
Only that was saving us from someone noticing .
They might notice later when they went back over the camera footage , but that I could not help .
`` You . ''
I shook my head , hands crossed over my stomach .
`` I have two guards in bed with me and that 's not protection enough ? ''
I whispered back .
`` They are good men , but they are not me . ''
I frowned at him .
`` Are you saying you do n't trust anyone but you to keep me safe ? ''
Our voices sounded quiet , peaceful almost , like the voices of parents whispering over sleeping children .
It was comforting to know that Doyle was this alert .
He was one of the greatest warriors of all the sidhe .
It was good to have him on my side .
`` Frost ... perhaps , '' he said .
I shook my head ; my hair had grown out just enough to tickle the tops of my shoulders .
`` The Queen 's Ravens are the finest warriors that faerie has to offer , and you say no one is your equal .
You arrogant ... '' He did n't so much step closer -- we were standing too close for that -- he merely moved , pressing close enough that the hem of my robe brushed his legs .
The moonlight glinted off the short necklace he always wore , a tiny jeweled spider hanging from the delicate silver chain .
He bent his face down so that his breath pushed against my face .
`` I could kill you before either of them knew what had happened . ''
The threat sped my pulse faster .
I knew he would n't harm me .
I knew it , and yet ... and yet .
I 'd seen Doyle kill with his hands before , empty of weapons , only his strength of flesh and magic .
Standing , touching in the intimate darkness , I knew beyond certainty that if he wished me dead , he could do it , and not I or the two sleeping guards behind me would be able to stop him .
I could n't win a fight , but there were other things to do when pressed together in the dark , things that could distract or disarm as well or better than a blade .
I turned minutely toward him so that my face was pressed into the curve of his neck ; my lips moved against his skin as I spoke .
I felt his pulse speed pressed against my cheek .
`` You do n't want to hurt me , Doyle . ''
His lower lip brushed the curve of my ear , almost but not quite a kiss .
`` I could kill all three of you . ''
There was a sharp mechanical sound from behind us , the sound of a gun being cocked .
It was loud enough in the stillness that I jumped .
`` I do n't think you could kill all three of us , '' Rhys said .
His voice was clear , precise , no hint of sleep in it .
He was simply awake , pointing a gun at Doyle 's back , or at least I assumed that 's what he was doing .
I could n't see around the bulk of Doyle 's body ; and Doyle , as far as I knew , did n't have eyes in the back of his head , so he had to guess what Rhys was doing , too .
`` A double-action handgun does n't need to be cocked to fire , Rhys , '' Doyle said , voice calm , even amused .
But I could n't see his face to see if his expression matched his tone ; we 'd both frozen in our almost embrace .
`` I know , '' Rhys said , `` a little melodramatic , but you know what they say : One scary sound is worth a thousand threats . ''
I spoke , my mouth still touching the warm skin of Doyle 's neck .
`` They do n't say that . ''
Doyle had n't moved , and I was afraid to , afraid to set something in motion that I could n't stop .
I did n't want any accidents tonight .
`` They should , '' Rhys said .
The bed creaked behind us .
`` I have a gun pointed at your head , Doyle . ''
It was Nicca 's voice .
But not calm , no , a definite thread of anxiety wove his words together .
Rhys 's voice had held no fear ; Nicca 's held enough for both of them .
But I did n't have to see Nicca to know the gun was trained nice and steady , the finger already on the trigger .
After all , Doyle had trained him .
I felt the tension leave Doyle 's body , and he raised his face just enough so that he was no longer speaking into my skin .
`` Perhaps I could n't slay you all , but I could kill the princess before you could kill me , and then your lives would mean nothing .
The Queen would hurt you much more than I ever could for allowing her heir to be slaughtered . ''
I could see his face now .
Even by moonlight he was relaxed , his eyes distant , not really looking at me anymore .
He was too intent on the lesson he was teaching his men to care about me .
I braced my back against the wall , but he paid no attention to the small movement .
I put a hand in the middle of his chest and pushed .
It made him stand up straighter , but there really was n't room for him to go anywhere but on the bed .
`` Stop it , all of you , '' I said , and I made sure my voice rang in the room .
I glared up at Doyle .
`` Get away from me . ''
He gave a small bow using just his neck for there was n't room for anything more formal , then he backed up , hands out to his sides to show himself empty-handed to the other guards .
He ended between the bed and the wall with no room to maneuver .
Rhys was half on his back , gun pointed one-handed as he followed Doyle 's movement around the room .
Nicca was standing on the far side of the bed , gun held two-handed in a standard shooter 's stance .
They were still treating Doyle like a threat , and I was tired of it .
`` I am tired of these little games , Doyle .
Either you trust your men to keep me safe , or you do n't .
If you do n't , then find other men , or make sure you or Frost are always with me .
But stop this . ''
`` If I had been one of our enemies , your guards would have slept through your death . ''
`` I was awake , '' said Rhys , `` but truthfully I thought you 'd finally come to your senses and were going to do her up against the wall . ''
Doyle frowned at him .
`` You would think something that crude . ''
`` If you want her , Doyle , then just say so .
Tomorrow night can be your turn .
I think we 'd all step aside for an evening if you 'd break your ...
fast . ''
The moonlight softened Rhys 's scars like a white gauzy patch where his right eye should have been .
`` Put up your guns , '' I said .
They looked at Doyle for confirmation .
I shouted at them .
`` Put up the guns .
I am the princess here , heir to the throne .
He 's the captain of my guard , and when I tell you to do something , you will , by Goddess , do it . ''
They still looked at Doyle .
He gave the smallest of nods .
`` Get out , '' I said .
`` All of you , get out . ''
Doyle shook his head .
`` I do n't think that would be wise , Princess . ''
Usually I tried to get them all to call me Meredith , but I had invoked my status .
I could n't take it back in the next sentence .
`` So my direct orders do n't mean anything , is that it ? ''
Doyle 's expression was neutral , careful .
Rhys and Nicca had put up their guns , but neither one was meeting my eyes .
`` Princess , you must have at least one of us with you at all times .
Our enemies are ...
persistent . ''
My relatives would probably kill me when they found me , but if I went public and aired our dirty laundry for the world media , they would most definitely kill me .
And they 'd kill me slower .
So no police , no ambassadors , just the ultimate game of hide-and-seek .
I smiled at Jeremy and gave him what I knew he wanted : the look that said that I appreciated the slender potential of his body under his perfect suit .
To humans it would have looked like flirting , but for the fey , any fey , it was n't even close to flirting .
`` Thanks , Jeremy , but you did n't come in here to compliment my clothes . ''
He walked farther into the room , running manicured fingers along my desk edge .
`` I 've got two women in my office .
They want to be clients , '' he said .
`` Want to be ?
`` I said .
He turned , leaning against the desk , arms crossed over his chest .
Mirroring my stance at the windows , either unconsciously , or purposefully , though I did n't know why .
`` We do n't usually do divorce work , '' Jeremy said .
I gave him wide eyes , pushing away from the windows .
`` Day one lecture , Jeremy : The Grey Detective Agency never , ever , does divorce work . ''
`` I know , I know , '' he said .
He pushed away from the desk and came to stand beside me , staring out into the fog .
He did n't look any happier than I felt .
I leaned back against the glass so I could see his face better .
`` Why are you breaking your cardinal rule , Jeremy ? ''
He shook his head without looking at me .
`` Come meet them , Merry .
I trust your judgment .
If you say we stay out of it , we 'll stay out of it .
But I think you 'll feel the same way I do . ''
I touched his shoulder .
`` And how are you feeling , boss , other than worried ? ''
I ran my hand down his arm , and it made him look at me .
His eyes had gone dark charcoal grey with anger .
`` Come meet them , Merry .
If you 're as angry afterward as I am , then we 'll nail this bastard . ''
I gripped his arm .
`` Jeremy , relax .
It 's just a divorce case . ''
`` What if I told you it was attempted murder ? ''
His voice was calm .
Matter of fact , it did n't match the intensity in his eyes , the vibrating tension in his arm .
I moved back from him .
`` Attempted murder ?
What are you talking about ? ''
`` The nastiest death spell that 's ever walked into my office . ''
`` The husband is trying to kill her ? ''
I made it a question .
`` Someone is , and the wife says it 's the husband .
The mistress agrees with the wife . ''
I blinked at him .
`` Are you saying that the wife and the mistress are in your office ? ''
He nodded , and even through all the outrage , he smiled .
I smiled back .
`` Well , that 's got to be a first . ''
He took my hand .
`` It might be a first even if we did do divorce work , '' he said .
His thumb rubbed back and forth over my knuckles .
He was nervous , or he would n't be touching me this much .
A way to reassure himself , like a touchstone .
He raised my hand to his lips and planted a quick kiss on my knuckles .
I think he 'd noticed what he was doing , that his nerves were showing .
He flashed me a white smile , the best caps money could buy , and turned toward the door .
`` Answer one question first , Jeremy . ''
He adjusted his suit , minute movements to tug it back into place as if it needed it .
`` Ask away . ''
`` Why are you scared of this ? ''
The smile faded until his face was solemn .
`` I 've got a bad feeling about this one , Merry .
Prophecy is n't one of my gifts , but this one has a bad smell to it . ''
`` Then pass it by .
We are n't the cops .
We do this for a very nice pay-check , not because we 've sworn to serve and protect , Jeremy . ''
`` If after you meet them , you can honestly walk away from it , then we will . ''
`` Why is my vote suddenly a presidential veto ?
The name on the door is Grey , not Gentry . ''
`` Because Teresa 's so empathic she could n't turn anyone away .
Roane is too much the bleeding heart to turn tearful women away . ''
He adjusted his dove grey tie , fingers smoothing over the diamond stickpin .
`` The others are good for grunt work , but they are n't decision makers .
That leaves you . ''
I met his eyes , trying to read past the anger , the worry , to what was really going on inside his head .
`` You 're not an empath , and you 're not a bleeding heart , and you make dandy decisions , so why ca n't you make this one ? ''
`` Because if we turn them away , they wo n't have anywhere else to go .
If they leave this office without our help , they 're both dead . ''
I stared at him , and finally understood .
`` You know we should walk away from this one , but you ca n't bring yourself to pass judgment on them .
You ca n't bring yourself to condemn them to death . ''
He nodded .
`` Yes . ''
`` What makes you think that I can do it , if you ca n't ? ''
`` I 'm hoping one of us is sane enough not to be this stupid . ''
`` I wo n't get you all killed for the sake of strangers , Jeremy , so be prepared to walk away from this one . ''
Even to me , my voice sounded hard , cold .
He smiled again .
`` That 's my little cold-hearted bitch . ''
I shook my head and walked toward the door .
`` It 's one of the reasons you love me , Jeremy .
You count on me not to flinch . ''
I walked out into the hallway that led between offices , sure that I would turn these women away .
Certain that I would be the wall that kept us all safe from Jeremy 's good intentions .
Goddess knows , I 'd been wrong before , but seldom as wrong as I was about to be .
I THOUGHT FOR SOME REASON I 'D BE ABLE TO TELL WHICH OF THE TWO women was wife and which was mistress just by looking at them .
But at first glance they were just two attractive women , casually dressed , like girlfriends out for a day of shopping and lunch .
A sprinkling of freckles underneath the pale makeup did n't detract from the flawless skin , it added .
Her eyes were green and blue at once , depending on how the light caught them .
Those undecided eyes could n't stop looking at Frost and Doyle .
She tried to concentrate on the legal pad she was supposed to be making notes on , but her gaze kept rising , and finding them , as if she could n't help herself .
That made me wonder if there was more going on than just handsome men and a distracted woman .
Shelby cleared his throat sharply .
I jumped and looked at him , `` I 'm terribly sorry , Mr. Shelby , were you speaking to me ? ''
`` No , I was not , and I should have been . ''
He looked down the table on his side .
`` I was brought into this as a more neutral voice , but let me ask my fellow members of the bar if they are having trouble forming questions for the princess . ''
Several of the lawyers spoke at the same time .
Veducci just raised his pencil in the air .
Veducci got the nod .
`` My office has dealt more closely with the princess and her people than the rest of you , which is why I 'm carrying certain remedies against glamour . ''
`` What sort of remedies ? ''
Shelby asked .
`` I wo n't tell you what I 'm carrying , but cold steel , iron , four-leaf clover , St.-John's-Wort , rowan , and ash - either the wood or the berries - have been known to work .
Some say bells will break glamour , but I think high court sidhe wo n't be bothered much by bells . ''
`` Are you saying that the princess is using glamour against us ? ''
Shelby asked , his handsome face no longer pleasant .
`` I am saying that sometimes when dealing with King Taranis or Queen Andais , their presence overwhelms humans , '' Veducci responded .
`` Princess Meredith , being part human , though beautiful - `` He nodded in my direction .
I nodded at the compliment. ''
- has never affected anyone so strongly , but a lot has been happening in the Unseelie Court in the last few days .
Ambassador Stevens has filled me in , as have other sources .
Princess Meredith and some of her guard have moved up the power grid , so to speak . ''
Veducci still looked tired , but now his eyes showed the mind inside that overweight , overworked camouflage .
I realized with a start that there were other dangers besides ambition .
Veducci was smart , and hinted that he knew something about what had happened inside the Unseelie Court .
Did he know , or was he fishing ?
Did he think we 'd give something away ?
`` It is illegal to use glamour on us , '' Shelby said , angry .
He looked at me now , and his look was no longer in the least friendly .
I looked back .
I gave him the full force of my tricolored eyes : molten gold at the outer edge , then a circle of jade green , and last emerald to chase around my pupil .
He looked away first , dropping his gaze to his own legal pad .
His voice was tight with controlled rage .
`` We could have you arrested , or deported back to faerie for trying to use magic to sway these proceedings , Princess . ''
`` I 'm not dong anything to you , Mr. Shelby , not on purpose . ''
I looked at Veducci .
`` Mr. Veducci , you say that simply seeing my aunt and uncle was difficult ; am I difficult now ? ''
`` From my colleagues ' reactions , I believe you are . ''
`` So this is the reaction that King Taranis and Queen Andais have on humans ? ''
`` Similar , '' Veducci said .
I had to smile .
`` This is not funny , Princess , '' Cortez said , his words full of anger , but when I met his brown eyes , they dropped from me .
I looked at Nelson , but it was n't me distracting her ; her problem was behind me .
`` Which one are you staring at the most ? ''
I asked , `` Frost or Doyle ; light or dark ? ''
She blushed in that pretty way human redheads have .
`` I 'm not ... '' '' Come , Ms. Nelson , confess , which one ? ''
She swallowed hard enough that I heard it .
`` Both , '' she whispered .
`` We will charge you and these two guards with undue magical influence in a legal proceeding , Princess Meredith , '' Cortez said .
`` I agree , '' Shelby said .
`` Neither I , nor Frost and Doyle , are doing this on purpose . ''
`` We are not stupid . ''
Shelby said .
`` Glamour is an active magic , not a passive one . ''
`` Most glamour , yes , but not all , '' I said .
I looked down the table at Veducci .
They 'd put him farthest from the center of the table , as if being from St. Louis made him less .
Or maybe I was just overly sensitive for my hometown .
`` Did you know , '' Veducci said , `` that when you see the Queen of England , they call it being in the presence ?
I 've never met Queen Elizabeth , and I 'm not likely to , so I do n't know how it works for her .
I 've never spoken to a human queen .
But the phrase 'in the presence , ' to be in the presence of the queen , means more when it 's the queen of the Unseelie Court .
To be in the presence of the king of the Seelie Court is also a treat . ''
`` What does that mean ? ''
Cortez asked .
`` A treat ? ''
`` It means , gentleman , and ladies , that being king or queen in faerie gives you an unconscious aura of power , of attractiveness .
You live in L. A .
You see that it works in lesser ways for major stars , or politicians .
Power seems to breed power .
Dealing with the faerie courts has made me believe that even us poor humans do [ it ] .
To be around the powerful , rich , beautiful , talented , whatever , it is n't just human nature to suck up .
I think it 's glamour .
I think that success of a certain level has a glamour to it , and you attract people to you .
They want to be around you .
They listen to you more .
They do what you say more .
Humans have a shadow of real glamour ; now think about someone who is the most powerful figure in faerie .
Think about the level of power surrounding them . ''
`` Ambassador Stevens , '' Shelby said , `` should n't you have been the one who warned us about this effect ? ''
Stevens smoothed his tie , played with the Rolex watch Taranis had given him as a present .
`` King Taranis is a powerful figure with centuries of rulership .
He does have a certain nobility that is impressive .
I have not found Queen Andais as impressive . ''
`` Because you only talk to her from a distance , over the mirrors , with King Taranis by your side , '' Veducci said .
I was impressed that Veducci knew that , because it was absolutely true .
`` You 're the ambassador to faerie , '' Shelby said , `` not just to the Seelie Court . ''
`` I am the United States Ambassador to the courts of faerie , yes . ''
`` But you never step foot into the Unseelie Court ? ''
Shelby asked .
`` Uh , '' Stevens said , running his fingers over and over the watchband , `` I find Queen Andais a little less than cooperative . ''
`` What does that mean ? ''
Shelby said .
I watched him play with the watch , and a tiny bit of concentration showed that there was magic on it , or in it .
I answered for him , `` It means he thinks the Unseelie Court is full of perversion and monsters . ''
It really was a wonder that Dussander had lived as long as he had .
The old man tugged .
`` Give me my paper . ''
`` Sure thing , Mr Dussander . ''
Todd released his hold on the paper .
The spider-hand yanked it inside .
The screen closed .
`` My name is Denker , '' the old man said .
`` Not this Doo-Zander .
Apparently you can not read .
What a pity .
Good day . ''
The door started to close again .
Todd spoke rapidly into `` the narrowing gap .
`` Bergen-Belsen , January 1943 to June 1943 , Auschwitz , June 1943 to June of 1944 , Unterkommandant .
Patin '' The door stopped again .
The old man 's pouched and pallid face hung in the gap like a wrinkled , half-deflated balloon .
Todd smiled .
`` You left Patin just ahead of the Russians .
You got to Buenos Aires .
Some people say you got rich there , investing the gold you took out of Germany in the drug trade .
Whatever , you were in Mexico City from 1950 to 1952 .
Then '' '' Boy , you are crazy like a cuckoo bird . ''
One of the arthritic fingers twirled circles around a misshapen ear .
But the toothless mouth was quivering in an infirm , panicky way ... '' From 1952 until 1958 , I do n't know , '' Todd said , smiling more widely still .
`` No one does , I guess , or at least they 're not telling .
But an Israeli agent spotted you in Cuba , working as the concierge in a big hotel just before Castro took over .
They lost you when the rebels came into Havana .
You popped up in West Berlin in 1965 .
They almost got you . ''
He pronounced the last two words as one : gotcha .
At the same time he squeezed all of his fingers together into one large , wriggling fist .
Dussander 's eyes dropped to those well-made and well-nourished American hands , hands that were made for building soapbox racers and Aurora models .
Todd had done both .
In fact , the year before , he and his dad had built a model of the Titanic .
It had taken almost four months , and Todd 's father kept it in his office .
`` I do n't know what you are talking about , '' Dussander said .
Without his false teeth , his words had a mushy sound Todd did n't like .
It did n't sound ... well , authentic .
Colonel Klink on Hogan 's Heroes sounded more like a Nazi than Dussander did .
But in his time he must have been a real whiz .
In an article on the death-camps in Men 's Action , the writer had called him The Blood-Fiend of Patin .
`` Get out of here , boy .
Before I call the police . ''
`` Gee , I guess you better call them , Mr Dussander .
Or Heir Dussander , if you like that better . ''
He continued to smile , showing perfect teeth that had been fluoridated since the beginning of his life and bathed thrice a day in Crest toothpaste for almost as long .
`` After 1965 , no one saw you again ... until I did , two months ago , on the downtown bus . ''
`` You 're insane . ''
`` So if you want to call the police , '' Todd said , smiling , `` you go right ahead .
I 'll wait on the stoop .
But if you do n't want to call them right away , why do n't I come in ?
We 'll talk . ''
There was a long moment while the old man looked at the smiling boy .
Birds twitted in the trees .
On the next block a power mower was running , and far off , on busier streets , horns honked out their own rhythm of life and commerce .
In spite of everything , Todd felt the onset of doubt He could n't be wrong , could he ?
Was there some mistake on his part ?
He did n't think so , but this was no schoolroom exercise .
It was real life .
So he felt a surge of relief ( mild relief , he assured himself later ) when Dussander said : `` You may come in for a moment , if you like .
But only because I do not wish to make trouble for you , you understand ? ''
`` Sure , Mr Dussander , '' Todd said .
He opened the screen and came into the hall .
Dussander closed the door behind them , shutting off the morning .
The house smelted stale and slightly malty .
It smelted the way Todd 's own house smelted sometimes the morning after his folks had thrown a party and before his mother had had a chance to air it out .
But this smell was worse .
It was lived-in and ground-in .
It was liquor , fried food , sweat , old clothes , and some stinky medicinal smell like Vicks or Mentholatum .
It was dark in the hallway , and Dussander was standing too close , his head hunched into the collar of his robe like the head of a vulture waiting for some hurt animal to give up the ghost .
In that instant , despite the stubble and the loosely hanging flesh , Todd could see the man who had stood inside the black SS uniform more clearly than he had ever seen him on the street .
And he felt a sudden lancet of fear slide into his belly .
Mild fear , he amended later .
`` I should tell you `` that if anything happens to me '' he began , and then Dussander shuffled past him and into the living room , his slippers wish-wishing on the floor .
He flapped a contemptuous hand at Todd , and Todd felt a flush of hot blood mount into his throat and cheeks .
Todd followed him , his smile wavering for the first time .
He had not pictured it happening quite like this .
But it would work out .
Things would come into focus .
Of course they would .
Things always did .
He began to smile again as he stepped into the living room .
It was another disappointment '' and how !
`` but one he supposed he should have been prepared for .
There was of course no oil portrait of Hitler with his forelock dangling and eyes that followed you .
No medals in cases , no ceremonial sword mounted on the wall , no Luger or PPK Walther on the mantle ( there was , in fact , no mantle ) .
Of course , Todd told himself , the guy would have to be crazy to put any of those things out where people could see them .
Still , it was hard to put everything you saw in the movies or on TV out of your head .
It looked like the living room of any old man living alone on a slightly frayed pension .
The fake fireplace was faced with fake bricks .
A Westclox hung over it .
There was a black and white Motorola TV on a stand ; the tips of the rabbit ears had been wrapped in aluminium foil to improve reception .
The floor was covered with a grey rug ; its nap was balding .
The magazine rack by the sofa held copies of National Geographic , Reader 's Digest , and the LA Times .
Instead of Hitler or a ceremonial sword hung on the wall , there was a framed certificate of citizenship and a picture of a woman in a funny hat .
Dussander later told him that sort of hat was called a cloche , and they had been popular in the twenties and thirties .
`` My wife , '' Dussander said sentimentally .
`` she died in 1955 of a lung disease .
At that time I was a draughtsman at the Menschler Motor Works in Essen .
The face belongs to a young , conventionally handsome man of about twenty-five ; he looks like one of those beach beefcakes on Baywatch or Melrose Place .
Marginally smarter , though .
He 's got a lot of black hair under a carelessly worn surgical greens cap .
He 's wearing the tunic , too .
His eyes are cobalt blue , the sort of eyes girls reputedly die for .
There are dusty arcs of freckles high up on his cheekbones .
`` Hey , gosh , '' he says .
It 's the third voice .
`` This guy does look like Michael Bolton !
A little long in the old tootharoo , maybe ... '' He leans closer .
One of the flat tie-ribbons at the neck of his green tunic tickles against my forehead .
`` But yeah .
I see it .
Hey , Michael , sing something . ''
Help me !
is what I 'm trying to sing , but I can only look up into his dark blue eyes with my frozen dead man 's stare ; I can only wonder if I am a dead man , if this is how it happens , if this is what everyone goes through after the pump quits .
If I 'm still alive , how come he has n't seen my pupils contract when the light hit them ?
But I know the answer to that ... or I think I do .
They did n't contract .
That 's why the glare from the fluorescents is so painful .
The tie , tickling across my forehead like a feather .
Help me !
I scream up at the Baywatch beefcake , who is probably an intern or maybe just a med school brat .
Help me , please !
My lips do n't even quiver .
The face moves back , the tie stops tickling , and all that white light streams through my helpless-to-look-away eyes and into my brain .
It 's a hellish feeling , a kind of rape .
I 'll go blind if I have to stare into it for long , I think , and blindness will be a relief .
WHOCK !
The sound of the driver hitting the ball , but a little flat this time , and the feeling in the hands is bad .
The ball 's up ... but veering ... veering off ... veering toward ... Shit .
I 'm in the rough .
Now another face bends into my field of vision .
A white tunic instead of a green one below it , a great untidy mop of orange hair above it .
Distress-sale IQ is my first impression .
It can only be Rusty .
He 's wearing a big dumb grin that I think of as a high-school grin , the grin of a kid who should have a tattoo reading `` Born to Snap Bra Straps '' on one wasted bicep .
`` Michael ! ''
Rusty exclaims .
`` Jeez , ya lookin ' gooood !
This'z an honor !
Sing for us , big boy !
Sing your deadassoff ! ''
From somewhere behind me comes the doc 's voice , cool , no longer even pretending to be amused by these antics .
`` Quit it , Rusty . ''
Then , in a slightly new direction : `` What 's the story , Mike ? '
I hear that sound in my head again- WHOM-only this time it is followed by another , far less pleasant sound : the rustle of underbrush as I sweep it with the head of my driver .
It would have to be fourteen , where there is reputedly poison ivy .
Poison ivy and ... Rusty is still peering down at me , stupid and avid .
It 's not death that interests him ; it 's my resemblance to Michael Bolton .
Oh yes , I know about it , have not been above using it with certain female clients .
Otherwise , it gets old in a hurry .
And in these circumstances ... God .
`` Attending physician ? '
the lady doc ; asks .
`` Was it Kazalian ? ''
`` NO , '' Mike says , and for just a moment he looks down at me .
Older than Rusty by at least ten years .
Black hair with flecks of gray in it .
Spectacles .
How come none of these ~ can see that I am not dead ?
`` There was a doc in the foursome that found him , actually .
That 's his signature on page one ...
see ? ''
Riffle : of paper , then : `` Christ , Jennings .
I know him .
He gave Noah his physical after the ark grounded on Mount Ararat . ''
Rusty does n't look as if he gets the joke , but he brays laughter into my face anyway .
I can smell onions on his breath , a little leftover lunchstink , and if I can smell onions , I must be breathing .
I must be , right ?
If only- Before I can finish this thought , Rusty leans even closer and I feel a blast of hope .
He 's seen something !
He 's seen something and means to give me mouth-to-mouth .
God bless you , Rusty !
God bless you and your onion breath !
But the stupid grin does n't change , and instead of putting his mouth on mine , his hand slips around my jaw.- Now he 's grasping one side with his thumb and the other side with his fingers .
`` He 's alive !
- Rusty cries .
`` He 's alive , and he 's gon na sing for the Room Four Michael Bolton Fan Club ! ''
His fingers pinch tighter-it hurts in a distant comingout-of-the-novocaine way-and begins to move my jaw up and down , clicking my teeth together .
`` If she 's ba-aaad , he ca n't see it , '' Rusty sings in a hideous , atonal voice that would probably make Percy Sledge 's head explode .
`` She can do no wrrr-ongggg ... My teeth open and close at the rough urging of his hand ; my tongue rises and falls like a dead dog riding the surface of an uneasy waterbed .
`` Stop it ! ''
the lady doc snaps at him .
She sounds genuinely shocked .
Rusty , perhaps sensing this , does not stop but goes gleefully on .
His fingers are pinching into my cheeks now .
My frozen eyes stare blindly upward .
`` Turn his back on his best friend if she put him d- '' Then she 's there , a woman in a green gown with her cap tied around her throat and hanging down her back like the Cisco Kid 's sombrero , short brown hair swept back from her brow , good-looking but severe-more handsome than pretty .
She grabs Rusty with one short-nailed hand and pulls him back from me .
`` Hey '' Rusty says , indignant .
`` Get your hands off me ! ''
`` Then you keep your hands off him , `` she says , and there is no mistaking the anger in her voice .
`` I 'm tired of your sophomore class wit , Rusty , and the next time you start in , I 'm going to report you . ''
`` Hey , let 's all calm down , '' says the Baywatch hunk Doc 's assistant .
He sounds alarmed , as if he expects Rusty and his boss to start duking it out right here .
`` Let 's just put a lid on it . ''
`` Why 's she bein ' such a bitch to me ? ''
Rusty says .
He 's still trying to sound indignant , but he 's actually whining now .
Five , ten , twelve , then all twenty .
One of them was gesturing , ordering the others .
They lined themselves up -along the crack that the fall had produced and began to push .
The crack began to widen .
Renshaw picked one of the large pillows off the couch and began to walk towards them .
The commanding officer turned and gestured .
The others whirled and unslung their carbines .
There were tiny , almost delicate popping sounds , and Renshaw felt suddenly as if he had been stung by bees .
He threw the pillow .
It struck them , knocking them sprawling , then hit the box and knocked it wide open .
Insectlike , with a faint , high whirring noise like chiggers , a cloud of miniature helicopters , painted jungle green , rose out of the box .
Tiny phut !
phut !
sounds reached Renshaw 's ears and he saw pinprick-sized muzzle flashes coming from the open copter doors .
Needles pricked his belly , his right arm , the side of his neck .
He clawed out and got one - sudden pain in his fingers ; blood welling .
The whirling blades had chopped them to the bone in diagonal scarlet hash marks .
The others whirled out of range , circling him like horseflies .
The stricken copter thumped to the rug and lay still .
Sudden excruciating pain in his foot made him cry out .
One of the foot soldiers was standing on his shoe and bayoneting his ankle .
The tiny face looked up , panting and grinning .
Renshaw kicked at it and the tiny body flew across the room to splatter on the wall .
It did not leave blood but a viscid purple smear .
There was a tiny , coughing explosion and blinding agony ripped his thigh .
One of the bazooka men had come out of the footlocker .
A small curl of smoke rose lazily from his weapon .
Renshaw looked down at his leg and saw a blackened , smoking hole in his pants the size of a quarter .
The flesh beneath was charred .
The little bastard shot me !
He turned and ran into the hall , then into his bedroom .
One of the helicopters buzzed past his cheek , blades whirring busily .
The small stutter of a BAR .
Then it darted away .
The gun beneath his pillow was a .44 Magnum , big enough to put a hole the size of two fists through anything it hit .
Renshaw turned , holding the pistol in both hands .
He realized coolly that he would be shooting at a moving target not much bigger than a flying light bulb .
Two of the copters whirred in .
Sitting on the bed , Renshaw fired once .
One of the helicopters exploded into nothingness .
That 's two , he thought .
He drew a bead on the second ... squeezed the trigger .
It jigged !
Goddamnit , it jigged !
The helicopter swooped at him in a sudden deadly arc , fore and aft overhead props whirring with blinding speed .
Renshaw caught a glimpse of one of the BAR men crouched at the open bay door , firing his weapon in short , deadly bursts , and then he threw himself to the floor and rolled .
My eyes , the bastard was going for my eyes !
He came up on his back at the far wall , the gun held at chest level .
But the copter was retreating .
It seemed to pause for a moment , and dip in recognition of Renshaw 's superior firepower .
Then it was gone , back towards the living room .
Renshaw got up , wincing as his weight came down on the wounded leg .
It was bleeding freely .
And why not ?
he thought grimly .
It 's not everybody who gets hit point-blank with a bazooka shell and lives to tell about it .
So Mom was his number-one idea girl , was she ?
She was all that and a bit more .
He shook a pillowcase free of the tick and ripped it into a bandage for his leg , then took his shaving mirror from the bureau and went to the hallway door .
Kneeling , he shoved it out on to the carpet at an angle and peered in .
They were bivouacking by the footlocker , damned if they were n't .
Miniature soldiers ran hither and thither , setting up tents .
Jeeps two inches high raced about importantly .
A medic was working over the soldier Renshaw had kicked .
The remaining eight copters flew in a protective swarm overhead , at coffee-table level .
Suddenly they became aware of the mirror , and three of the foot soldiers dropped to one knee and began firing .
Seconds later the mirror was shattered in four places .
Okay , okay , then .
Renshaw went back to the bureau and got the heavy mahogany odds-and-ends box Linda had given him for Christmas .
He hefted it once , nodded , and went to the doorway and lunged through .
He wound up and fired like a pitcher throwing a fast ball .
The box described a swift , true vector and smashed little men like ninepins .
One of the jeeps rolled over twice .
Renshaw advanced to the doorway of the living room , sighted on one of the sprawling soldiers , and gave it to him .
Several of the others had recovered .
Some were kneeling and firing formally .
Others had taken cover .
Still others had retreated back into the footlocker .
The bee stings began to pepper his legs and torso , but none reached higher than his rib cage .
Perhaps the range was too great .
It did n't matter ; he had no intention of being turned away .
This was it .
He missed with his next shot - they were so goddamn small - but the following one sent another soldier into a broken sprawl .
The copters were buzzing towards him ferociously .
Now the tiny bullets began to splat into his face , above and below his eyes .
He potted the lead copter , then the second .
Jagged streaks of pain silvered his vision .
The remaining six split into two retreating wings .
His face was wet with blood and he swiped at it with his forearm .
He was ready to start firing again when he paused .
The soldiers who had retreated inside the footlocker were trundling something out .
Something that looked like .
There was a blinding sizzle of yellow fire , and a sudden gout of wood and plaster exploded from the wall to his left .
a rocket launcher !
He squeezed off one shot at it , missed , wheeled and ran for the bathroom at the far end of the corridor .
He slammed the door and locked it .
In the bathroom mirror an Indian was staring back at him with dazed and haunted eyes , a battle-crazed Indian with thin streamers of red paint drawn from holes no bigger than grains of pepper .
A ragged flap of skin dangled from one cheek .
There was a gouged furrow in his neck .
I 'm losing !
I know the odds are shitty , but maybe somebody will come before - `` '' The beacon 's smashed to hell , '' Rand said .
`` It happened when we came down . ''
`` Maybe it can be fixed , '' Shapiro called back over his shoulder .
As he ducked through the hatchway he felt better in spite of the smells - fried wiring and a bitter whiff of Freon gas .
He told himself he felt better because he had thought of the beacon .
No matter how paltry , the beacon offered some hope .
But it was n't the thought of the beacon that had lifted his spirits ; if Rand said it was broken , it was probably most righteously broken .
But he could no longer see the dunes - could no longer see that big , never-ending beach .
That was what made him feel better .
When he got to the top of the first dune again , struggling and panting , his temples pounding with the dry heat , Rand was still there , still staring and staring and staring .
An hour had gone by .
The sun stood directly above them .
Rand 's face was wet with perspiration .
Jewels of it nestled in his eyebrows .
Droplets ran down his cheeks like tears .
More droplets ran down the cords of his neck and into the neck of his EP suit like drops of colorless oil running into the guts of a pretty good android .
Dronehead I called him , Shapiro thought with a little shudder .
Christ , that 's what he looks like - not an android but a dronehead who just took a neck-shot with a very big needle .
And Rand had been wrong after all .
`` Rand ? ''
No answer .
`` The beacon was n't broken . ''
There was a flicker in Rand 's eyes .
Then they went blank again , staring out at the mountains of sand .
Frozen , Shapiro had first thought them , but he supposed they moved .
The wind was constant .
They would move .
Over a period of decades and centuries , they would ... well , would walk .
Was n't that what they called dunes on a beach ?
Walking dunes ?
He seemed to remember that from his childhood .
Or school .
Or someplace , and what in the hell did it matter ?
Now he saw a delicate rill of sand slip down the flank of one of them .
As if it heard ( heard what I was thinking ) Fresh sweat on the back of his neck .
All right , he was getting a touch of the whim-whams .
Who would n't ?
This was a tight place they were in , very tight .
And Rand seemed not to know it ... or not to care .
`` It had some sand in it , and the warbler was cracked , but there must have been sixty of those in Grimes 's odds-and-ends box . ''
`` I do n't know how the sand got in it - it was right where it was supposed to be , in the storage compartment behind the bunk , three closed hatches between it and the outside , but - `` '' Oh , sand spreads .
Gets into everything .
Remember going to the beach when you were a kid , Bill ?
You 'd come home and your mother would yell at you because there was sand everywhere ?
Sand in the couch , sand on the kitchen table , sand down the foot of your bed ?
Beach sand is very ... '' He gestured vaguely , and then that dreamy , unsettling smile resurfaced .
`` ...
ubiquitous . ''
`` - but it did n't hurt it any , '' Shapiro continued .
`` The emergency power output system is ticking over and I plugged the beacon into it .
I put on the earphones for a minute and asked for an equivalency reading at fifty parsecs .
Sounds like a power saw .
It 's better than we could have hoped . ''
`` No one 's going to come .
Not even the Beach Boys .
The Beach Boys have all been dead for eight thousand years .
Welcome to Surf City , Bill .
Surf City sans surf . ''
Shapiro stared out at the dunes .
He wondered how long the sand had been here .
A trillion years ?
A quintillion ?
Had there been life here once ?
Maybe even something with intelligence ?
Rivers ?
Green places ?
Oceans to make it a real beach instead of a desert ?
Shapiro stood next to Rand and thought about it .
The steady wind ruffled his hair .
And quite suddenly he was sure all those things had been , and he could picture how they must have ended .
The slow retreat of the cities as their waterways and outlying areas were first speckled , then dusted , finally drifted and choked by the creeping sand .
He could see the shiny brown alluvial fans of mud , sleek as sealskins at first but growing duller and duller in color as they spread further and further out from the mouths of the rivers - out and out until they met each other .
He could see sleek sealskin mud becoming reed-infested swamp , then gray , gritty till , finally shifting white sand .
He could see mountains shortening like sharpened pencils , their snow melting as the rising sand brought warm thermal updrafts against them ; he could see the last few crags pointing at the sky like the fingertips of men buried alive ; he could see them covered and immediately forgotten by the profoundly idiotic dunes .
What had Rand called them ?
Ubiquitous .
If you just had a vision , Billy-boy , it was a pretty goddam dreadful one .
Oh , but no , it was n't .
It was n't dreadful ; it was peaceful .
It was as quiet as a nap on a Sunday afternoon .
What was more peaceful than the beach ?
He shook these thoughts away .
It helped to look back toward the ship .
`` There is n't going to be any cavalry , '' Rand said .
`` The sand will cover us and after a while we 'll be the sand and the sand will be us .
Surf City with no surf - can you catch that wave , Bill ? ''
And Shapiro was scared because he could catch it .
You could n't see all those dunes without getting it .
`` Fucking dronehead asshole , '' he said .
He went back to the ship .
And hid from the beach .
Sunset finally came .
The time when , at the beach - any real beach - you were supposed to put away the volleyball and put on your sweats and get out the weenies and the beer .
Not time to start necking yet , but almost .
Time to look forward to the necking .
Weenies and beer had not been a part of ASN/29s stores .
Shapiro spent the afternoon carefully bottling all of the ship 's water .
He used a porta-vac to suck up that which had run out of the ruptured veins in the ship 's supply system and puddled on the floor .
He got the small bit left in the bottom of the shattered hydraulic system 's water tank .
He did not overlook even the small cylinder in the guts of the air-purification system which circulated air in the storage areas .
I see Ninian , a year younger than me , new to the watch ... a two-headed demon , pieced together from the bones and flesh of the dead ... blood .
Goll is first on the scene .
An old-style warrior , he fights naked , with only a small leather shield , a short sword and axe .
He hacks at the demon with his axe and buries it deep in one of the monster 's heads .
The demon screeches but does n't release Ninian .
It lashes out at Goll with a fleshless arm and knocks him back , then buries the teeth of its uninjured head in Ninian 's throat .
The screams stop with a sickening choking sound .
Conn and three other warriors swarm past Goll and attack the demon .
It swings Ninian at them like a club and scythes two of them down .
Conn and another keep their feet .
Conn jabs one of the monster 's eyes with his spear .
The demon squeals like a banshee .
The other warrior-Ena-slides in close , grabs the beast 's head and twists , snapping its neck .
If you break a human 's neck , that person will almost surely die .
But demons are made of sturdier stuff .
Broken necks just annoy most of them .
With one hand the demon grabs the head which Goll shattered with his axe .
Rips it off and batters Ena with it .
She does n't let go .
Snaps the neck again , in the opposite direction .
It comes loose and she drops it .
She pulls a knife from a scabbard strapped to her back and drives it into the rotting bones of the skull .
Making a hole , she wrenches the sides apart with her hands , digs in and pulls out a fistful of brains .
Grabs a torch and sets fire to the grey goo .
The demon howls and grabs blindly for the burning brains .
Conn snatches the other head from its hand .
He throws it to the ground and mashes it to a pulp with his axe .
The demon shudders , then slumps .
`` More ! ''
comes a call from near the gate .
It 's late-later than demons usually attack .
Most of the warriors on the main watch have retired for the night , replaced by children like me .
Our eyes and ears are normally sharp .
But this close to dawn , most of us are sleepy and sluggish .
We 've been caught off guard .
The demons have snuck up .
They have the advantage .
Bodies spill out of huts .
Hands grab spears , swords , axes , knives .
Men and women race to the rampart .
Most are naked , even those who normally fight in clothes-no time to get dressed .
Demons pound on the gate and scale the banks of earth outside , tearing at the sharpened wooden poles of the fence , clambering over .
The two-headed monster might have been a diversion , sent to distract us .
Or else it just had a terrible sense of direction , as many corpse-demons do .
Warriors mount ladders or haul themselves up on to the rampart to tackle the demons .
It 's hard to tell how many monsters there are .
Definitely five or six .
And at least two are real demons- Fomorii .
Conn arrives at the gate , shouting orders .
He bellows at those on watch who 've strayed from their posts .
`` Stay where you are !
Call if clear ! ''
The trembling children return to their positions and peer into the darkness , waving torches over their heads .
In turn they yell , `` Clear ! ''
`` Clear ! ''
`` Clear ! ''
One starts to shout `` Cle- '' , then screams , `` No !
Three of them over here ! ''
`` With me ! ''
Goll roars at Ena and the others who fought the first demon .
They held back from the battle at the gate , in case of a second attack like this .
Goll leads them against the trio of demons .
I see fury in his face-he 's not furious with the demons , but with himself .
He made a mistake with the first one and let it knock him down .
That wo n't happen again .
As the warriors engage the demons , I move to the centre of the rath and wait .
I do n't normally get involved in fights .
I 'm too valuable to risk .
If the demons break through the barricades , or if an especially powerful Fomorii comes up against us-that 's when I go into action .
To be honest , I doubt I could do much against the stronger Fomorii .
Everybody in the rath knows that .
But we pretend I 'm a great priestess , mistress of all the magics .
The lie comforts us and gives us some faint shadow of hope .
The younger children of the rath cluster around me , watching their parents fight to the death against the foul legions of the Otherworld .
Their older brothers and sisters are at the foot of the rampart , passing up weapons to the adults , ready to dive into the breach if they fall .
But these young ones would n't be of much use .
I hate standing with them .
I 'd rather be at the rampart .
But duty comes at a price .
Each of us does what we can do best .
My wishes do n't matter .
The welfare of the rath and my people comes first .
Always .
One of the Fomorii makes it over the fence .
Half-human , half-boar .
A long jaw .
A mix of human teeth and tusks .
Demonic yellow eyes .
Claws instead of hands .
It bellows at the warriors who go up against it , then spits blood at them .
The blood hits a woman in the face .
She shrieks and topples back off the rampart .
Her flesh is bubbling-the demon blood is like fire .
I race to the woman .
It 's Scota .
We share a hut sometimes ( I 'm passed around from hut to hut now Banba 's gone ) .
Her usually pale skin is an ugly red colour .
Bubbles of flesh burst .
The liquid sizzles .
Scota screams .
He flipped down the visor over the steering wheel , hoping against hope that a spare key might flop down , sometimes folks kept one up there , but there was nothing there but an old ice scraper .
That flopped down .
He tried the glove compartment next .
It was full of papers .
He raked them out onto the floor , kneeling on the seat to do it , his breath puffing .
There were papers , and a box of Junior Mints , but no keys .
There , you goddam dummy , he heard George saying , are you satisfied now ?
Ready to at least try hot-wiring it now ?
He supposed he was .
He supposed he could at least tear some of the wires loose and touch them together like George did and see what happened .
He closed the door and started toward the front of the Ford again with his head down .
Then he stopped .
A new idea had struck him .
He went back , opened the door , bent down , flipped up the floormat , and there it was .
They key did n't say FORD on it , it did n't say anything on it because it was a dupe , but it had the right square head and everything .
Blaze picked it up and kissed the cold metal .
Unlocked car , he thought .
Then he thought : Unlocked car and key under the floormat .
Then he thought : I ai n't the dumbest guy out tonight after all , George .
He got in behind the wheel , slammed the door , slid the key in the ignition slot-it went in nice-then realized he could n't see the parking lot because the hood was still up .
He looked around quick , first one way and then the other , making sure that George had n't decided to come back and help him out .
George would never let him hear the end of it if he saw the hood still up like that .
But George was n't there .
No one was there .
The parking lot was tundra with cars .
Blaze got out and slammed the hood .
Then he got back in and paused in the act of reaching for the door handle .
What about George ?
Should he go in yonder beer-farm and get him ?
Blaze sat frowning , head down .
The dome light cast yellow light on his big hands .
Guess what ?
he thought , raising his head again at last .
Screw him .
`` Screw you , George , '' he said .
George had left him to hitchhike in , just meeting him here , then left him again .
Left him to do the dirtywork , and it was only by the dumbest of dumb luck that Blaze had found a key , so screw George .
Let him thumb a ride back in the three-degree cold .
Blaze closed the door , dropped the gear-shift into Drive , and pulled out of the parking space .
Once in an actual lane of travel , he stomped down heavily and the Ford leaped , rear end fishtailing on the hard-packed snow .
He slammed on the brakes , suddenly stiff with panic .
What was he doing ?
What was he thinking of ?
Go without George ?
He 'd get picked up before he went five miles .
Probably get picked up at the first stop-n-go light .
He could n't go without George .
But George is dead .
That was bullshit .
George was just there .
He went inside for a beer .
He 's dead .
`` Oh , George , '' Blaze moaned .
He was hunched over the wheel .
`` Oh , George , do n't be dead . ''
He sat there awhile .
The Ford 's engine sounded okay .
It was n't knocking or anything , even though it was cold .
The gas gauge said threequarters .
The exhaust rose in the rearview , white and frozen .
George did n't come out of the beer joint .
He could n't come out cause he did n't never went in .
George was dead .
Had been three months .
Blaze started to shake .
After a little bit , he caught hold of himself .
He began to drive .
No one stopped him at the first traffic light , or the second .
No one stopped him all the way out of town .
By the time he got to the Apex town line , he was doing fifty .
Sometimes the car slid a little on patches of ice , but this did n't bother him .
He just turned with the skid .
He had been driving on icy roads since he was sixteen .
Outside of town he pushed the Ford to sixty and let it ride .
The high beams poked the road with bright fingers and rebounded brilliantly from the snowbanks on either side .
Boy , there was going to be one surprised college kid when he took his college girl back to that empty slot .
She 'd look at him and say , You are a dummy , I ai n't going with you again , not here or nowhere .
`` Are n't , '' Blaze said .
`` She 'll say are n't . ''
That made him smile .
The smile changed his whole face .
He turned on the radio .
It was tuned to rock .
Blaze turned the knob until he found country .
By the time he reached the shack , he was singing along with the radio at the top of his voice and he had forgotten all about George .
Chapter 2 That was the curse of being a dummy .
You were always being surprised by grief , because you could never remember the important things .
The only stuff that stuck was dumb stuff .
Like that poem Mrs. Selig made them learn way back in the fifth grade : Under the spreading chestnut tree , the village smithy stands .
What good was that ?
What good when you caught yourself peeling potatoes for two and got smacked all over again with knowing you did n't need to peel no two potatoes , because the other guy was never going to eat another spud ?
Well , maybe it was n't grief .
Maybe that word was n't the right word .
Not if that meant crying and knocking your head against the wall .
You did n't do that for the likes of George .
But there was loneliness .
There was hurt .
And there was fear .
George would say : `` Jesus , would you change your fuckin skivvies ?
Those things are ready to stand up on their own .
Standing outside the door is a young black man ?
a youth , actually , surely no more than seventeen ?
wearing black jeans and a dirty red sweater with a hood .
He jives from foot to foot , blowing puffs of steam out of his mouth , smiling frequently , showing a gold tooth .
In one hand he holds a partly crushed Styrofoam coffee cup .
There 's some change in it , which he rattles constantly .
'Spare a little ? '
he asks the passersby as they stream toward the revolving doors .
'Spare a little , sir ?
Spare a little , ma'am ?
Just trying to get lil spot of breffus .
Than you , gobless you , merry Christmas .
Spare a little , sir ?
Quarter , maybe ?
Than you .
Spare a little , ma'am ? '
As he passes , Bill drops a nickel and two dimes into the young black man 's cup .
'Thank you , sir , gobless , merry Christmas . '
'You , too , ' he says .
The woman next to him frowns .
'You should n't encourage them , ' she says .
He gives her a shrug and a small , shamefaced smile .
'It 's hard for me to say no to anyone at Christmas , ' he tells her .
He enters the lobby with a stream of others , stares briefly after the opinionated bitch as she heads for the newsstand , then goes to the elevators with their old-fashioned floor dials and their art deco numbers .
Here several people nod to him , and he exchanges a few words with a couple of them as they wait ?
it 's not like the train , after all , where you can change cars .
Plus , the building is an old one , only fifteen stories high , and the elevators are cranky .
'How 's the wife , Bill ? '
a scrawny , constantly grinning man from the fifth floor asks .
'Andi ?
She 's fine . '
'Kids ? '
'Both good . '
He has no kids , of course ?
he wants kids about as much as he wants a hiatal hernia ?
and his wife 's name is n't Andi , but those are things the scrawny , constantly grinning man will never know .
'Bet they ca n't wait for the big day , ' the scrawny man says , his grin widening and becoming unspeakable .
Now he looks like an editorial cartoonist 's conception of Famine , all big eyes and huge teeth and shiny skin .
'That 's right , ' he says , 'but I think Sarah 's getting kind of suspicious about the guy in the red suit . '
Hurry up , elevator he thinks , Jesus , hurry up and save me from these stupidities .
'Yeah , yeah , it happens , ' the scrawny man says .
His grin fades for a moment , as if they are discussing cancer instead of Santa .
'How old 's she now ? '
'Eight . '
'Boy , the time sure flies when you 're having fun , does n't it ?
Seems like she was just born a year or two ago . '
'You can say that again , ' he says , fervently hoping the scrawny man wo n't say it again .
At that moment one of the four elevators finally gasps open its doors and they herd themselves inside .
Bill and the scrawny man walk a little way down the fifth floor hall together , and then the scrawny man stops in front of a set of old-fashioned double doors with the words CONSOLIDATED INSURANCE written on one frosted-glass panel and ADJUSTORS OF AMERICA on the other .
From behind these doors comes the muted clickety-click of computer keyboards and the slightly louder sound of ringing phones .
'Have a good day , Bill . '
'You too . '
The scrawny man lets himself into his office , and for a moment Bill sees a big wreath hung on the far side of the room .
Also , the windows have been decorated with the kind of snow that comes in a spray can .
He shudders and thinks , God save us , every one .
His office ?
one of two he keeps in this building ?
is at the far end of the hall .
The two offices up from it are dark and vacant , a situation that has held for the last six months and one he likes just fine .
Printed on the frosted glass of his own office door are the words WESTERN STATES LAND ANALYSTS .
There are three locks on the door : the one that was on it when he moved into the building nine years ago , plus two he has put on himself .
He lets himself in , closes the door , turns the bolt , then engages the police lock .
A desk stands in the center of the room , and it is cluttered with papers , but none of them mean anything ; they are simply window dressing for the cleaning service .
Every so often he throws them all out and redistributes a fresh batch .
In the center of the desk is a telephone on which he makes occasional random calls so that the phone company wo n't register the line as totally inactive .
Last year he purchased a fax , and it looks very businesslike over in its corner by the door to the office 's little second room , but it has never been used .
'Do you hear what I hear , do you smell what I smell , do you taste what I taste , ' he murmurs , and crosses to the door leading to the second room .
Inside are shelves stacked high with more meaningless paper , two large file cabinets ( there is a Walkman on top of one , his excuse on the few occasions when someone knocks on the locked door and gets no answer ) , a chair , and a stepladder .
Bill takes the stepladder back to the main room and unfolds it to the left of the desk .
He puts his briefcase on top of it .
Then he mounts the first three steps of the ladder , reaches up ( the bottom half of his coat bells out around his legs as he does ) , and carefully moves aside one of the suspended ceiling panels .
Above is a dark area which can not quite be called a utility space , although a few pipes and wires do run through it .
There 's no dust up here , at least not in this immediate area , and no rodent droppings , either ?
he uses D-Con Mouseprufe once a month .
He wants to keep his clothes nice as he goes back and forth , of course , but that 's not really the important part .
the important part is to respect your work and your field .
This he learned in the Marines , and he sometimes thinks it is the most important thing he did learn there .
He stayed alive , of course , but he thinks now that was probably more luck than learning .
Still , a person who respects his work and his field ?
the place where the work is done , the tools with which it is done ?
has a leg up in life .
No doubt about that .
Above this narrow space ( a ghostly , gentle wind hoots endlessly through it , bringing a smell of dust and the groan of the elevators ) is the bottom of the sixth floor , and here is a square trap door about thirty inches on a side .
Bill installed it himself ; he 's handy with tools , which is one of the things Sharon most appreciates about him .
He flips the trap door up , letting in muted light from above , then grabs his briefcase by the handle .
As he sticks his head into the space between the floors , water rushes gustily down the fat bathroom conduit twenty or thirty feet north of his present position .
An hour from now , when the people in the building start their coffee breaks , that sound will be as constant and as rhythmic as waves breaking on a beach .
Bill hardly notices this or any of the other interfloor sounds ; he 's used to them .
He climbs carefully to the top of the stepladder , then boosts himself through into his sixth floor office , leaving Bill down on five .
Up here he is Willie .
This office has a workshop look , with coils and motors and vents stacked neatly on metal shelves and what looks like a filter of some kind squatting on one corner of the desk .
It is an office , however ; there 's a computer terminal , an IN/OUT basket full of papers ( also window dressing , which he periodically rotates like a farmer rotating crops ) , and file cabinets .
On one wall is a framed Norman Rockwell print showing a family praying over Thanksgiving dinner .
Next to it is a blowup of his honorable discharge from the marines , also framed ; the name on the sheet is William Teale , and his decorations , including the Bronze Star , are duly noted .
On another wall is a poster from the sixties .
It shows the peace sign .
Below it , in red , white , and blue , is this punchline : TRACK OF THE GREAT AMERICAN CHICKEN .
Willie puts Bill 's briefcase on the desk , then lies down on his stomach .
He pokes his head and arms into the windy , oil-smelling darkness between the floors and replaces the ceiling panel of the fifth-floor office .
it 's locked up tight , he does n't expect anyone anyway ( he never does ; Western States Land Analysts has never had a single customer ) , but it 's better to be safe .
`` But a lot ? ''
I shrug and look away .
I 'm in Mr. Mauch 's office .
Misery Mauch-the school counsellor .
He holds court a few times a week .
Chats with students who are struggling with homework , peer pressure , pushy parents .
Normal kids with normal problems .
And then there 's me .
Misery loves sitting down for a warts'n'all session with me .
Why would n't he ?
With a history like that , I 'm a dinosaur-sized bone for every psychiatric dog within a hundred kilometre radius !
`` Would you like to tell me about your dreams , Grubitsch ? ''
Misery asks .
`` No . ''
`` Are you sure ? ''
I feel like laughing but do n't .
Misery 's harmless .
It ca n't be much fun , trekking around his small cache of schools , dealing with the same boring teenage problems day after day , year after year .
If I was in his shoes , I 'd be itching to get my hands on a juicily messed-up student like me too .
`` Grubitsch ? ''
Misery prods after a few seconds of silence .
`` Hmm ? ''
`` Telling me about your dreams might help .
A problem shared is a problem halved . ''
I almost respond with , `` What 's a clich shared ? ''
but again I hold my tongue .
I 'd ruin Misery 's day if I cut him down like that .
Might reduce him to tears .
`` They 're not much of a problem , sir , '' I say instead , trying to wind the session down .
I 'm missing physics and I quite like that subject .
`` Please , Grubitsch , call me William . ''
`` Sorry , sir-I mean , William . ''
Misery smiles big , as if he 's made a breakthrough .
`` The nightmares must be a problem if they 're not going away , '' he presses gently .
`` If you told me , perhaps we could find a way to stop them . ''
`` I do n't think so , '' I respond , a bit sharper than I meant .
He 's talking about stuff which is way over his head .
I do n't mind a school counsellor showing interest in me but I dislike the way he 's acting like a second-rate mind-sleuth , clumsily trying to draw out my secrets .
`` I did n't mean to offend you , Grubitsch , '' Misery says quickly , realising he 's overstepped the mark .
`` To be honest , sir , '' I say stiffly , `` I do n't think you 're qualified to discuss matters like this . ''
`` No , no , of course not , '' Misery agrees , his features sorrowing up .
`` I do n't want to pretend to be something I 'm not .
I apologise if I gave that impression .
I only thought , if you were in the mood to talk , it might help .
It might be a beginning .
Of course it 's not my ...
I 'm under no illusion ... as you say , I 'm not qualified to ... '' He mutters to a halt .
`` Do n't have a breakdown , '' I laugh , feeling guilty .
`` It 's no biggie .
I just do n't want to talk about my dreams to anyone .
Not right now . ''
Misery gulps , nods briskly , then says I can go .
Tells me he 'll be back next week but wo n't ask to see me .
He 'll give me some breathing space .
Maybe in a month or two he 'll call me in again , to `` shoot the breeze '' .
I hesitate at the door , not wanting to leave him on such a down note-his head 's bowed over his notes and he looks like he 's fighting back sniffles .
`` Mr .
Mau-William . ''
He looks up curiously .
`` Next time , if you want , you can call me Grubbs . ''
`` Grubbs ? ''
he repeats uncertainly .
`` It 's what my friends call me . ''
`` Oh , '' he says and his face lights up like he 's won the jackpot .
I slip out , masking a smile .
School counsellors-child 's play !
Lunch .
Loch wants to know what I was talking with Misery about .
`` The size of your brain , '' I tell him .
`` We wondered how small it was . ''
`` Do n't worry about the size of my brain , '' Loch snorts .
`` My brain 's fine .
A lot healthier than your pea of a think-tank . ''
`` How big is a brain ? ''
Charlie asks .
Everyone stares at him .
`` I mean , does it fill the whole of the head ? ''
He starts poking his skull , searching for soft spots .
`` In your case , I doubt it , '' Loch says .
`` You 've probably got enough empty space in there to hold a football . ''
Laughter all round .
Even Charlie laughs .
He 's used to being the butt of our jokes .
He does n't mind .
They 're always light-hearted .
Everyone likes Charlie Rail .
He 's too nice to get vicious on .
Six of us , sheltering from rain in a doorway overlooking the football quad .
The usual pack of barbarians are kicking the life out of a tired old ball-and each other-on the quad , oblivious to the rain .
My group-me , Loch , Charlie , Frank , Leon and Mary .
Loch and I stand a head or more above any of the others .
We 're the biggest pair of lunks in our school , which is what drew us to each other in the first place .
Loch 's a wrestler .
He wanted me to be his partner , so he became my friend .
I held out for a long time-real wrestling 's nothing like the stuff on TV , very calculated and unspectacular-but he eventually persuaded me to give it a go .
I 'm not much good , and do n't get a real kick out of it , but to keep Loch happy I travel to a few meets every month and get down'n'sweaty on the mats .
`` I think Misery 's sexy in an older-man kind of way , '' Mary says to a chorus of astonished jeers and catcalls .
`` You 've got the hots for Mauch ? ''
Leon gasps , faking a heart attack .
Besides , Sampson was a merman , and they arent big on offensive abilities , at least not this far inland .
Perdy was a mermaid , too .
Though Id never seen either of them turn all fishy .
They just looked like people to me .
Perdy stayed for you , Nathaniel said .
Jason nodded .
She wanted me to be hers .
Shes very jealous , very possessive .
Im just not into that .
So you have a woman who greets you like Anita greets me , but the rest doesnt work .
No , Nathaniel .
She used to greet me sort of like that , but for weeks now its been , Where have you been ?
Who have you been with ?
You fucked the master again , didnt you ?
You fucked Asher , didnt you ?
You were with Anita again , werent you ?
Ive put you on the back burner for feeding me , I said .
I got the impression Perdy didnt want to share you that much , but I had no idea she thought you were doing more than just donating blood to the vampires .
Shes like crazy jealous , and she wont believe me when I tell her I havent been with anyone else .
Its why I asked Jean-Claude to take me out of your feeding schedule for a while .
I thought if I stopped having sex with the only other person I was really having sex with that Perdy would calm down .
Nathaniel and I exchanged glances across the table .
He shrugged .
I asked the question .
Did it work ?
No , he said .
He took another drink of coffee , and it must have finished the cup because he got up and went for the French press beside the sink .
He took the coffee cozy off of it , then put it back on without filling his cup .
He set the cup in the sink .
I dont want more coffee .
You can never have too much coffee , I said .
He turned and smiled at me .
You think so , but the rest of us get a little ODed on your level of caffeine .
What happened , Jason ?
I asked .
The smile slipped a little more .
He was solemn when he turned to us .
He leaned his back against the cabinets , crossed his arms across his chest , and again didnt quite meet our eyes .
She wanted me to marry her .
Till death do us part and all that .
Shes a mermaid , which means shell outlive me .
She can live for hundreds of years , not immortal like a vampire , but close .
You didnt want to marry her , I said , softly .
He shook his head .
Shes obsessed with me .
She says she loves me , but it doesnt feel like love .
It feels like Im smothering .
Shes not the right one , then .
He grinned , and it almost reached his eyes .
Look whos talking about the right one .
You cant pick just one either .
Thats different .
Why , because youre a living vampire who feeds off sex , so you have to have a bevy of lovers ?
The ardeur is like the perfect excuse to never have to say youre sorry .
Id change it if I could , you know that .
He came to me then , put his arms around my shoulders , and rested his cheek on the top of my head .
I didnt mean to make you sad , Anita .
God knows I didnt .
Please , dont tell me youd change it if you could .
You love Nathaniel , and Micah .
They love you .
You love Jean-Claude and Asher , and they love you .
Youre still a little confused about what to do with Damian , but youll get there .
I shook my head and stood up , moving away from him .
Dont forget Requiem , and London , and sometimes Richard .
Oh , wait , and the swan king pops in now and then , no pun intended .
It sounded angry and bitter , and I was glad .
I didnt mean to say the wrong thing .
I didnt mean to make you feel bad , or to have another woman mad at me tonight .
Please , Anita , please , dont be mad .
Im upset .
You have no idea how upset .
Please , please , Im a bastard , but dont be mad .
He held his hand out to me .
His face pleaded along with his words .
Id never seen his eyes full of quite this kind of pain .
The look in his eyes was more than just losing a girlfriend he didnt want anymore .
I held out my hand , but made him take the step to close our fingers around each other .
His eyes glittered in the overhead lights .
I took his hand , held it .
His breath came in a soft gasp , and I thought for a second he was going to cry , buTHE just looked at me .
His eyes that had glistened a moment before were almost dead , as if whatever he was feeling hed locked away somewhere .
In a way , to me , that was worse .
I went to him , and he wrapped his arms around me as if he were at the edge of a cliff and I were his only handhold .
That quiet holding on was somale .
A woman would have cried , or talked more , but for a man , after a certain point this is their pain .
I held him back , tried to tell him it would be all right .
I whispered it into his hair , against his cheek .
Its all right , Jason .
Its all right .
Nathaniel came up behind him and wrapped his arms around us both .
He pressed his cheek against his friends hair and said , Were here , Jason .
Were here for you .
Jason just held on wordless , motionless , the strength in his arms , shoulders , pressing against me , but it wasnt about sex .
Id never been pressed so close to any man and thought only , God , whats wrong ?
Either he had loved Perdy and now he was regretting letting her go , or the other shoe hadnt dropped .
What else could be wrong ?
We ended up on the floor of the kitchen , simply sitting in a row with our backs to the kitchen island .
He still hadnt said what else was wrong , or thaTHE was desperately in love with Perdy and how could he fix it ?
I kept waiting for him to share .
She leaned in and whispered , `` If I was being offered a seventeen-year-old boy toy I 'd be more excited , Anita . ''
Matthew was out of sight so I let my eyes show just how happy that comment made me .
Monica let go of my arm , her eyes a little wide , face surprised .
`` Oh , come on , Anita , what woman would n't be flattered ? ''
`` First , I have n't agreed to letting him stay in St. Louis when they bring him in from Vegas tomorrow .
Second , do n't ever call him a boy toy again . ''
`` Touchy , '' she said , and then her face softened and her eyes glittered with some thought that I knew I was n't going to like .
`` Defensive of him already , Anita .
My , my , he must be better in bed than I remember at that age . ''
I leaned in and hissed in her ear .
`` We were all mind-raped by one of the scariest vampires to ever exist , Monica .
She used me to feed on his power as a weretiger .
She used me , and him , and all the other tigers in a bid to survive even if it meant destroying all of us .
You tell me , what part of that was a good thing ? ''
I had grabbed her arm somewhere in all that .
She spoke low .
`` You 're hurting me . ''
I let go of her , and stepped back .
She looked up at me , and I think for a moment let herself see me , really see me .
She was angry , and for just a moment I knew that she did n't like me any more than I liked her , not really .
Then I watched a different look cross her face , one that most men would have thought was a good look , but a woman knows when another woman is about to drive the blade home .
`` Funny how it 's never your fault when you have to have sex with all these men , Anita , '' and with that she walked away .
She walked away with the proverbial knife stuck deep and hard right through my heart .
Nothing cuts deeper than when another person says exactly what you 're afraid to say out loud .
Hell , Matthew had said it , too , in his way .
All the big boys kiss you , 'Nita .
2 I GOT BACK to the foot of the stairs and the still-crowded lobby .
I scanned the crowd for Micah , but since he was my size neither of us could see the other over the crowd .
The people parted and I could see him about halfway across the room , talking with a family I did n't recognize .
He was smiling , face alight with good humor .
He laughed , head back , soundless to me over the murmur of the crowd .
The crowd closed again and just like that I could n't see him .
I started easing my way toward him .
The crush cleared and I could see him again .
He was one of those rare men who could look delicate , until you took in the wide shoulders tapering down to a slender waist .
He was built like a swimmer , though his sports were jogging and weight lifting like most of the wereanimals I knew .
His suits all had to be tailored-down athletic cuts .
Italian suits seemed to fit best .
American suits were mostly shaped like boxes and looked terrible on short men with muscles .
Though Micah went for strength , not bulk .
Micah 's suit fit him perfectly , and I caught several women giving him covert glances as they hurried past with their families .
I had to smile because I knew he looked even better out of the suit than in it .
A man looked at his ass as he went past .
Micah got that a lot , too .
I think it was being short and pretty , because I could call him handsome if he wanted , but he was too pretty for words like handsome .
It was also the nearly waist-length hair .
Curly , and that rich , deep brown that said it might have been paler when he was little .
His hair was almost as curly as mine and spilled down his back to the envy of many a woman .
My own hair was almost to my waist , because he wanted to cut his hair and I did n't want him to .
I wanted to take a few inches off my hair and he did n't want me to .
So he 'd made me a deal .
If I cut my hair , he got to cut his .
We had a stalemate , and my hair had n't been this long since junior high .
He turned his face toward me as if he 'd felt me looking , and I could finally see all that delicate line of face , maybe a little long through the jaw for perfection , but that one line was all that saved him from looking like a beautiful woman instead of a man .
Elementary school must have been hell , because short and pretty men do n't usually fare well .
He told me that his eyes had originally been brown , but I 'd never seen those eyes , the ones he was born with .
He 'd come to me with leopard eyes trapped forever in those dark lashes , chartreuse eyes green and yellow depending on what color he wore near his face or how the light caught them .
Most of the time he wore sunglasses to hide the eyes , but wearing them after dark sometimes attracted more attention than what they hid , and it amazed him how many people could look him in the eyes and only remark , `` What beautiful eyes . ''
Or , `` What a great shade of green , '' and never make the connection .
Nathaniel would say , `` People see what they want to see , or what their minds tell them they should see most of the time . ''
Micah gave me the smile that was all for me .
It was made up of love , lust , and just that connection we had had from almost the moment we 'd met .
He was my Nimir-Raj , my leopard king , and I was his Nimir-Ra , leopard queen .
Though I did n't shapeshift to anything , I still somehow held a piece of leopard inside me , and that piece had seemed to know him .
Micah had never questioned it , and I had done something unprecedented : I 'd let him move in with me .
We were two years and still counting ; two years and still happy with each other .
It was a record for me .
Usually by now I 'd wrecked it somehow , or the man had done something I could point at and go See , see I knew it would n't work .
Micah had managed to walk the maze that was my heart and not get caught in any of the traps .
He said his good-byes to the people and came to me .
He smiled , the edge of his mouth quirking up like it did sometimes , his eyes shining as if laughter were just a thought away .
`` What are you looking at ? ''
he asked , voice low .
I smiled back because I could n't help it .
`` You . ''
Our hands reached for each other at the same time , our fingers just finding each other , entwining , playing along the touch and feel of each other .
I 'd had one friend say that we could get more out of just holding hands than some couples got out of kissing .
But we did that , too , leaning in and being careful of the lipstick .
Micah went through most nights with a touch of my lipstick on his mouth .
He did n't seem to mind .
`` Who was that ? ''
I asked as we turned and began to make our way hand in hand with the last of the crowd toward the auditorium .
`` One of the families in our support group , '' he said .
Micah was the head/spokesperson for the Coalition for Better Understanding Between Human and Lycanthrope Communities .
It was affectionately known as the Furry Coalition .
The Coalition helped new shapeshifters adjust to the change in lifestyle , and kept them from shifting early outside safe houses .
A new shifter was unpredictable .
It could take months of full moons before they were in control enough to be trustworthy without older , more experienced shifters riding herd on them .
And yes , unpredictable meant they were consumed by a craving for flesh , and fresh was better .
They also blacked out and had few memories of what they 'd done .
Most newbies passed out after shifting back to human form , so they needed to be either in a safe place or where someone could get them under some literal cover .
Micah and some of the other local leaders had come up with an idea for a family support group , where the members of the families that were n't shapeshifters could talk freely about their parents , siblings , or even grand-parents .
It was legal to be a shapeshifter in the United States now , but discrimination still occurred .
There were entire professions where failing one blood test would get you excluded forever .
Military , police , food industry , medical care - it was hard to keep a job if you were a teacher of children and the parents found out you turned into the big bad wolf once a month .
That kind of discrimination was illegal , but hard to prove .
It was one of the reasons that Richard Zeeman , junior high science teacher and local Ulfric , wolf king , would n't be here tonight sitting on the other side of Jean-Claude .
Richard was technically Jean-Claude 's wolf to call , as I was his human servant .
We were a triumvirate of power and should both have been here at his side , but Richard would n't risk being outed and losing his job .
That , and Richard really hated being a werewolf , but that was a problem for later .
Poor damn thing was probably yapping in doggy heaven before it knew it wasdead , Clay thought .
He understood in some clinical way he was in shock , but that in no way changed the depth of his amazement .
He stood there with his portfolio hanging from one hand and his brown shopping bag hanging from the other and his mouth hanging open .
Somewhere - it sounded like maybe around the corner on Newbury Street - something exploded .
The two girls had exactly the same haircut above their iPod headphones , but the one with the peppermint-colored cell phone was blond and her friend was brunette ; they were Pixie Light and Pixie Dark .
Now Pixie Light dropped her phone on the sidewalk , where it shattered , and seized Power Suit Woman around the waist .
Clay assumed ( so far as he was capable of assuming anything in those moments ) that she meant to restrain Power Suit Woman either from going after Mister Softee Guy again or from running into the street after her dog .
There was even a part of his mind that applauded the girl 's presence of mind .
Her friend , Pixie Dark , was backing away from the whole deal , small white hands clasped between her breasts , eyes wide .
Clay dropped his own items , one on each side , and stepped forward to help Pixie Light .
On the other side of the street - he saw this only in his peripheral vision - a car swerved and bolted across the sidewalk in front of the Four Seasons , causing the doorman to dart out of the way .
There were screams from the hotel 's forecourt .
And before Clay could begin helping Pixie Light with Power Suit Woman , Pixie Light had darted her pretty little face forward with snakelike speed , bared her undoubtedly strong young teeth , and battened on Power Suit Woman 's neck .
There was an enormous jet of blood .
The pixie-girl stuck her face in it , appeared to bathe in it , perhaps even drank from it ( Clay was almost sure she did ) , then shook Power Suit Woman back and forth like a doll .
The woman was taller and had to outweigh the girl by at least forty pounds , but the girl shook her hard enough to make the woman 's head flop back and forth and send more blood flying .
At the same time the girl cocked her own blood-smeared face up to the bright blue October sky and howled in what sounded like triumph .
She 's mad , Clay thought .
Totally mad .
Pixie Dark cried out , `` Who are you ?
What 's happening ? ''
At the sound of her friend 's voice , Pixie Light whipped her bloody head around .
Blood dripped from the short dagger-points of hair overhanging her forehead .
Eyes like white lamps peered from blood-dappled sockets .
Pixie Dark looked at Clay , her eyes wide .
`` Who are you ? ''
she repeated ... and then : `` Who am I ? ''
Pixie Light dropped Power Suit Woman , who collapsed to the sidewalk with her chewed-open carotid artery still spurting , then leaped at the girl with whom she had been chummily sharing a phone only a few moments before .
Clay did n't think .
If he had thought , Pixie Dark might have had her throat opened like the woman in the power suit .
He did n't even look .
He simply reached down and to his right , seized the top of the small treasuresshopping bag , and swung it at the back of Pixie Light 's head as she leaped at her erstwhile friend with her outstretched hands making claw-fish against the blue sky .
If he missed - He did n't miss , or even hit the girl a glancing blow .
The glass paperweight inside the bag struck the back of Pixie Light 's head dead-on , making a muffled thunk .
Pixie Light dropped her hands , one bloodstained , one still clean , and fell to the sidewalk at her friend 's feet like a sack of mail .
`` What the hell ? ''
Mister Softee Guy cried .
His voice was improbably high .
Maybe shock had given him that high tenor .
`` I do n't know , '' Clay said .
His heart was hammering .
`` Help me quick .
This other one 's bleeding to death . ''
From behind them , on Newbury Street , came the unmistakable hollow bang-and-jingle of a car crash , followed by screams .
The screams were followed by another explosion , this one louder , concussive , hammering the day .
Behind the Mister Softee truck , another car swerved across three lanes of Boylston Street and into the courtyard of the Four Seasons , mowing down a couple of pedestrians and then plowing into the back of the previous car , which had finished with its nose crumpled into the revolving doors .
This second crash shoved the first car farther into the revolving doors , bending them askew .
Clay could n't see if anyone was trapped in there - clouds of steam were rising from the first car 's breached radiatorC but the agonized shrieks from the shadows suggested bad things .
Very bad .
Mister Softee Guy , blind on that side , was leaning out his serving window and staring at Clay .
`` What 's going on over there ? ''
`` I do n't know .
Couple of car wrecks .
People hurt .
Never mind .
Help me , man . ''
He knelt beside Power Suit Woman in the blood and the shattered remnants of Pixie Light 's pink cell phone .
Power Suit Woman 's twitches had now become weak , indeed .
`` Smoke from over on Newbury , '' observed Mister Softee Guy , still not emerging from the relative safety of his ice cream wagon .
`` Something blew up over there .
I mean bigtime .
Maybe it 's terrorists . ''
As soon as the word was out of his mouth , Clay was sure he was right .
`` Help me . ''
`` WHO AM I ? ''
Pixie Dark suddenly screamed .
Clay had forgotten all about her .
He looked up in time to see the girl smack herself in the forehead with the heel of her hand , then turn around rapidly three times , standing almost on the toes of her tennies to do it .
The sight called up a memory of some poem he 'd read in a college lit class - Weave a circle round him thrice .
Coleridge , was n't it ?
She staggered , then ran rapidly down the sidewalk and directly into a lamppost .
She made no attempt to avoid it or even put up her hands .
She struck it face-first , rebounded , staggered , then went at it again .
`` Stop that ! ''
Clay roared .
He shot to his feet , started to run toward her , slipped in Power Suit Woman 's blood , almost fell , got going again , tripped on Pixie Light , and almost fell again .
Pixie Dark looked around at him .
Her nose was broken and gushing blood down her lower face .
A vertical contusion was puffing up on her brow , rising like a thunderhead on a summer day .
One of her eyes had gone crooked in its socket .
She opened her mouth , exposing a ruin of what had probably been expensive orthodontic work , and laughed at him .
He never forgot it .
Then she ran away down the sidewalk , screaming .
Behind him , a motor started up and amplified bells began tinkling out the Sesame Street theme .
Clay turned and saw the Mister Softee truck pulling rapidly away from the curb just as , from the top floor of the hotel across the way , a window shattered in a bright spray of glass .
A body hurtled out into the October day .
It fell to the sidewalk , where it more or less exploded .
More screams from the forecourt .
Screams of horror ; screams of pain .
`` No ! ''
Clay yelled , running alongside the Mister Softee truck .
`` No , comeback and help me !
I need some help here , you sonofabitch ! ''
No answer from Mister Softee Guy , who maybe could n't hear over his amplified music .
Clay could remember the words from the days when he 'd had no reason not to believe his marriage would n't last forever .
In those days Johnny watched Sesame Street every day , sitting in his little blue chair with his sippy cup clutched in his hands .
Something about a sunny day , keepin ' the clouds away .
A man in a business suit came running out of the park , roaring wordless sounds at the top of his lungs , his coattails flapping behind him .
Clay recognized him by his dogfur goatee .
The man ran into Boylston Street .
For a moment LeBay 's grin faltered a little , and his eyes narrowed down suspiciously .
I think he was evaluating the possibility that he was being put on .
He studied Arnie 's longing face for signs of guile , and then asked the murderously perfect question : 'Son , have you ever owned a car before ? '
'He owns a Mustang Mach II , ' I said quickly .
'His folks bought it for him .
It 's got a Hurst gearbox , a supercharger , and it can boil the road in first gear .
It - ' 'No , ' Arnie said quietly .
'I just got my driver 's licence this spring . '
LeBay tipped me a brief but crafty gaze and then swung his full attention back to his prime target .
He put both hands in the small of his back and stretched .
I caught a sour whiff of sweat .
'Got a back problem in the Army , ' he said .
'Full disability .
Doctors could never put it right .
Anyone ever asks you what 's wrong with the world , boys , you tell em it 's three things : doctors , commies , and nigger radicals .
Of the three commies is the worst , closely followed by doctors .
And if they want to know who told you , tell em Roland D. LeBay .
Yessir . '
He touched the old , scuffed hood of the Plymouth with a kind of bemused love .
'This here is the best car I ever owned .
Bought her in September 1957 .
Back then , that 's when you got your new model year , in September .
All summer long they 'd show you pictures of cars under hoods and cars under tarps until you were fair dyin t'know what they looked like underneath .
Not like now . '
His voice dripped contempt for the debased times he had lived to see .
'Brand-new , she was .
Had the smell of a brand-new car , and that 's about the finest smell in the world . '
He considered .
'Except maybe for pussy . '
I looked at Arnie , nibbling the insides of my cheeks madly to keep from braying laughter all over everything .
Arnie looked back at me , astounded .
The old man appeared to notice neither of us ; he was off on his own planet .
'I was in khaki for thirty-four years , ' LeBay told us , still touching the hood of the car .
'Went in at sixteen in 1923 .
1 et dust in Texas and seen crabs as big as lobsters in some of them Nogales whoredens .
I saw men with their guts comin out of their ears during Big Two .
In France I saw that .
Their guts was comin out their ears .
You believe that , son ? '
'Yessir , ' Arnie said .
I do n't think he 'd heard a word LeBay said .
He was shifting from foot to foot as if he had to go to the bathroom bad .
'About the car , though - ' 'You go to the University ? '
LeBay barked suddenly .
'Up there at Horlicks ? '
'Nosir , I go to Libertyville High .
'Good , ' LeBay said grimly .
'Steer clear of colleges .
They 're full of niggerlovers that want to give away the Panama Canal .
`` Think-tanks , '' they call em .
`` Assholetanks , `` say I . '
He gazed fondly at the car sitting on its flat tyre , its paintwork mellowing rustily in the late afternoon sunlight .
'Hurt my back in the spring of '57 , ' he said .
'Army was going to rack and ruin even then .
I got out just in time .
I came on back to Libertyville .
Looked over the rolling iron .
I took my time .
Then I walked into Norman Cobb 's Plymouth dealership - where the bowling alley is now on outer Main Street - and I ordered this here car .
I said you get it in red and white , next year 's model .
Red as a fire-engine on the inside .
And they did .
When I got her , she had a total of six miles on the mileometer .
Yessir . '
He spat .
I glanced over Arnie 's shoulder at the mileometer .
The glass was cloudy , but I could read the damage all the same : 97,432 .
And six-tenths .
Jesus wept .
'If you love the car so much , why are you selling it ? '
I asked .
He turned a milky , rather frightening gaze on me .
'Are you cracking wise on me , son ? '
I did n't answer , but I did n't drop my gaze either .
After a few moments of eye-to-eye duelling ( which Arnie totally ignored ; he was running a slow and loving hand over one of the back fins ) , he said , 'Ca n't drive anymore .
Back 's gotten too bad .
Eyes are going the same way . '
Suddenly I got it - or thought I did .
If he had given us the correct dates , he was seventy-one .
And at seventy , this state makes you start taking compulsory eye exams every year before they 'll renew your driver 's licence .
LeBay had either failed his eye exam or was afraid of failing .
Either way , it came to the same thing .
Rather than submit to that indignity , he had put the Plymouth up .
And after that , the , car had gotten old fast .
'How much do you want for it ? '
Arnie asked again .
Oh he just could n't wait to be slaughtered .
LeBay turned his face up to the sky , appearing to consider it for rain .
Then he looked down at Arnie again and gave him a large , kindly smile that was far too much like the previous shit-eating grin for me .
'I 've been asking three hundred , ' he said .
'But you seem a likely enough lad .
I 'll make it two-fifty for you . '
'Oh my Christ , ' I said .
But he knew who his sucker was , and he knew exactly how to drive the wedge in between us .
In the words of my grandfather , he had n't fallen off a haytruck yesterday .
'Okay , ' he said brusquely .
'If that 's how you want it .
I got my four-thirty story to watch .
Edge of Night .
Never miss it if I can help it .
'Dimensions close to ours .
Full of these immortal monsters that would drive a man mad at one look .
Frightful rubbish , of course .
Except , whenever one of these people straggles in , I wonder if all of it was rubbish .
I think to myself then when it 's quiet and late at night , like now that our whole world , everything we think of as nice and normal and sane , might be like a big leather ball filled with air .
Only in some places , the leather 's scuffed almost down to nothing .
Places where the barriers are thinner .
Do you get me ? '
'Yes , ' Farnham said , and thought : Maybe you ought to give me a kiss , Vetter I always fancy a kiss when I 'm getting my doodle pulled .
'And then I think , 'Crouch End 's one of those thin places .
Silly , but I do have those thoughts .
Too imaginative , I expect ; my mother always said so , anyway . '
'Did she indeed ? '
'Yes .
Do you know what else I think ? '
'No , sir not a clue . '
'Highgate 's mostly all right , that 's what I think it 's just as thick as you 'd want between us and the Dimensions in Muswell Hill and Highgate .
But now you take Archway and Finsbury Park .
They border on Crouch End , too .
I 've got friends in both places , and they know of my interest in certain things that do n't seem to be any way rational .
Certain crazy stories which have been told , we 'll say , by people with nothing to gain by making up crazy stories .
'Did it occur to you to wonder , Farnham , why the woman would have told us the things she did if they were n't true ? '
'Well ... ' Vetter struck a match and looked at Farnham over it .
'Pretty young woman , twenty-six , two kiddies back at her hotel , husband 's a young lawyer doing well in Milwaukee or someplace .
What 's she to gain by coming in and spouting about the sort of things you only used to see in Hammer films ? '
'I do n't know , ' Farnham said stiffly .
'But there may be an ex ... ' 'So I say to myself ' Vetter overrode him 'that if there are such things as 'thin spots , ' this one would begin at Archway and Finsbury Park ... but the very thinnest part is here at Crouch End .
And I say to myself , would n't it be a day if the last of the leather between us and what 's on the inside that ball just ... rubbed away ?
Would n't it be a day if even half of what that woman told us was true ? '
Farnham was silent .
He had decided that PC Vetter probably also believed in palmistry and phrenology and the Rosicrucians .
'Read the back file , ' Vetter said , getting up .
There was a crackling sound as he put his hands in the small of his back and stretched .
'I 'm going out to get some fresh air . '
He strolled out .
Farnham looked after him with a mixture of amusement and resentment .
Vetter was dotty , all right .
He was also a bloody fag-mooch .
Fags did n't come cheap in this brave new world of the welfare state .
He picked up Vetter 's notebook and began leafing through the girl 's story again .
And , yes , he would go through the back file .
He would do it for laughs .
The girl or young woman , if you wanted to be politically correct ( and all Americans did these days , it seemed ) had burst into the station at quarter past ten the previous evening , her hair in damp strings around her face , her eyes bulging .
She was dragging her purse by the strap .
'Lonnie , ' she said .
'Please , you 've got to find Lonnie . '
'Well , we 'll do our best , wo n't we ? '
Vetter said .
'But you 've got to tell us who Lonnie is . '
'He 's dead , ' the young woman said .
'I know he is . '
She began to cry .
Then she began to laugh to cackle , really .
She dropped her purse in front of her .
She was hysterical .
The station was fairly deserted at that hour on a weeknight .
Sergeant Raymond was listening to a Pakistani woman tell , with almost unearthly calm , how her purse had been nicked on Hillfield Avenue by a yob with a lot of football tattoos and a great coxcomb of blue hair .
Vetter saw Farnham come in from the anteroom , where he had been taking down old posters ( HAVE YOU ROOM IN YOUR HEART FOR AN UNWANTED CHILD ? )
and putting up new ones ( SIX RULES FOR SAFE NIGHT-CYCLING ) .
Vetter waved Farnham forward and Sergeant Raymond , who had looked round at once when he heard the American woman 's semi-hysterical voice , back .
Raymond , who liked breaking pickpockets ' fingers like breadsticks ( 'Aw , c'mon , mate , ' he 'd say if asked to justify this extra-legal proceeding , 'fifty million wogs ca n't be wrong ' ) , was not the man for a hysterical woman .
'Lonnie ! '
she shrieked .
'Oh , please , they 've got Lonnie ! ' .
The Pakistani woman turned toward the young American woman , studied her calmly for a moment , then turned back to Sergeant Raymond and continued to tell him how her purse had been snatched .
'Miss ... ' PC Farnham began .
'What 's going on out there ? '
she whispered .
Her breath was coming in quick pants .
Farnham noticed there was a slight scratch on her left cheek .
She was a pretty little hen with nice bubs small but pert and a great cloud of auburn hair .
Her clothes were moderately expensive .
The heel had come off one of her shoes .
'What 's going on out there ? '
she repeated .
'Monsters ... ' The Pakistani woman looked over again ... and smiled .
Her teeth were rotten .
The smile was gone like a conjurer 's trick , and she took the Lost and Stolen Property form Raymond was holding out to her .
'Get the lady a cup of coffee and bring it down to Room Three , ' Vetter said .
'Could you do with a cup of coffee , love ? '
'Lonnie , ' she whispered .
'I know he 's dead . '
'Now , you just come along with old Ted Vetter and we 'll sort this out in a jiff , ' he said , and helped her to her feet .
She was still talking in a low moaning voice when he led her away with one arm snugged around her waist .
She was rocking unsteadily because of the broken shoe .
Farnham got the coffee and brought it into Room Three , a plain white cubicle furnished with a scarred table , four chairs , and a water cooler in the corner .
He put the coffee in front of her .
'Here , love , ' he said , 'this 'll do you good .
I 've got some sugar if ... ' 'I ca n't drink it , ' she said .
'I could n't ... ' And then she clutched the porcelain cup , someone 's long-forgotten souvenir of Blackpool , in her hands as if for warmth .
Her hands were shaking quite badly , and Farnham wanted to tell her to put it down before she slopped the coffee and scalded herself .
'I could n't , ' she said again .
Then she drank , still holding the cup two-handed , the way a child will hold his cup of broth .
And when she looked at them , it was a child 's look simple , ex-hausted , appealing ... and at bay , somehow .
It was as if whatever had happened had somehow shocked her young ; as if some invisible hand had swooped down from the sky and slapped the last twenty years out of her , leaving a child in grownup American clothes in this small white interrogation room in Crouch End .
'Lonnie , ' she said .
'The monsters , ' she said .
'Will you help me ?
Will you please help me ?
Maybe he is n't dead .
But oh the wind outside , screaming over the roof and skating down black gutters !
He would sleep no more this night .
But little by little the wires unsnarled themselves and stiff Erector Set muscles relaxed .
His mind began to drift ... . And then a new screaming , this one closer than the nightwind outside , brought him back to staring wakefulness The hinges on the closet door .
Creeeeeeeeeeee That thin sound , so high that perhaps only dogs and small boys awake in the night could have heard it .
His closet door swung open slowly and steadily , a dead mouth opening on darkness inch by inch and foot by foot .
The monster was in that darkness .
It crouched where it had crouched before .
It grinned at him , and its huge shoulders bulked above its cocked head , and its eyes glowed amber , alive with stupid cunning .
I told you they 'd go away , Tad , it whispered .
They always do , in the end .
And then I can come back .
I like to come back .
I like you , Tad .
Tad stared at the creature in his closet with drugged , horrified fascination .
There was something that ... was almost familiar .
Something he almost knew .
And that was the worst , that almost knowing .
Because Because I 'm crazy , Tad .
I 'm here .
I 've been here all along .
My name was Frank Dodd once , and I killed the ladies and maybe I ate them , too .
I 've been here all along , I stick around , I keep my ear to the ground .
I 'm the monster , Tad , the old monster , and I 'll have you soon , Tad .
Feel me getting closer ... and closer ... . Perhaps the thing in the closet spoke to him in its own hissing breath , or perhaps its voice was the wind 's voice .
Either way , neither way , it did n't matter .
He listened to its words , drugged with terror , near fainting - ( but oh so wide awake ) ; he looked upon its shadowed , snarling face , which he almost knew .
He would sleep no more tonight ; perhaps he would never sleep again .
But sometime later , sometime between the striking of half past midnight and the hour of one , perhaps because he was small , Tad drifted away again .
Thin sleep in which hulking , furred creatures with white teeth chased him deepened into dreamless slumber .
The wind held long conversations with the gutters .
A rind of white spring moon rose in the sky .
Somewhere far away , in some still meadow of night or along some pine-edged corridor of forest , a dog barked furiously and then fell silent .
And in Tad Trenton 's closet , something with amber eyes held watch .
'Did you put the blankets back ? '
Donna asked her husband the next morning .
She was standing at the stove , cooking bacon .
Tad was in the other room , watching The New Zoo Revue and eating a bowl of Twinkles .
Twinkles was a Sharp cereal , and the Trentons got all their Sharp cereals free .
'Hmmm ? '
Vic asked .
He was buried deep in the sports pages .
A transplanted New Yorker , he had .
so far successfully resisted Red Sox fever .
But he was masochistically pleased to see that the Mets were off to another superlatively cruddy start .
'The blankets .
In Tad 's closet .
They were back in there .
The chair was back in there , too , and the door was open again . '
She brought the bacon , draining on a paper towel and still sizzling , to the table .
'Did you put them back on his chair ? '
'Not me , ' Vic said , turning a page .
'It smells like a mothball convention back there . '
'That 's funny .
He must have put them back . '
He put the paper aside and looked up at her .
'What are you talking about , Donna ? '
'You remember the bad dream last night 'Not apt to forget .
I thought the kid was dying .
Having a convulsion or something . '
She nodded .
'He thought the blankets were some kind of - ' She shrugged .
'Bogeyman , ' Vic said , grinning .
'I guess so .
And you gave him his teddybear and put those blankets in the back of the closet .
But they were back on the chair when I went to make his bed . '
She laughed .
'I looked in , and for just a second there I thought -' 'Now I know where he gets it , ' W said , picking up the newspaper again .
He cocked a friendly eye at her .
'Three hot dogs , my ass . '
Later , after Vic had shot off to work , Donna asked Tad why he had put the chair back in the closet with the blankets on it if they had scared him in the night .
Tad looked up at her , and his normally animated , lively face seemed pale and watchful -too old .
His Star Wars coloring book was open in front of him .
He had been doing a picture from the interstellar cantina , using his green Crayola to color Greedo .
'I did n't , ' he said .
'But Tad , if you did n't , and Daddy did n't , and I didn't 'The monster did it , ' Tad said .
'The monster in my closet . '
He bent to his picture again .
She stood looking at him , troubled , a little frightened .
He was a bright boy , and perhaps too imaginative .
This was not such good news .
She would have to talk to Vic about it tonight .
She would have to have a long talk with him about it .
'Tad , remember what your father said , ' she told him now .
'There are n't any such things as monsters . '
'Not in the daytime , anyway , ' he said , and smiled at her so openly , so beautifully , that she was charmed out of her fears .
She ruffled his hair and kissed his cheek .
She meant to talk to Vic , and then Steve Kemp came while Tad was at nursery school , and she forgot , and Tad screamed that night too , screamed that it was in his closet , the monster , the monster !
The closet door hung ajar , blankets on the chair .
This time Vic took them up to the third floor and stacked them in the closet up there .
'Locked it up , Tadder , ' Vic said , kissing his son .
'You 're all set now .
Go back to sleep and have a good dream . '
But Tad did not sleep for a long time , and before he did the closet door swung dear of its latch with a sly little snicking sound , the dead mouth opened on the dead dark - ' the dead dark where something furry and sharp-toothed and -clawed waited , something that smelled of sour blood and dark doom .
Hello , Tad , it whispered in its rotting voice , and the moon peered in Tad 's window like the white and slitted eye of a dead man .
'The only thing that old loudmouth bitch is any good at is telling the weather , ' George had been known to allow when in his cups and in the company of his cronies down at the Mellow Tiger .
It was one stupid name for a bar , but since it was the only one Castle Rock could boast , it looked like they were pretty much stuck with it .
There was general agreement with George 's opinion .
The drifter was coated with ice , head cocked back in a silent scream , ragged old coat and shirt beneath chewed open .
The drifter sat in a frozen pool of his own blood , staring at the downed lines , his hands still held up in a warding-off gesture with ice between the fingers .
And all around him are pawprints .
APRIL By the middle of the month , the last of the snow flurries have turned to showers of rain and something amazing is happening in Tarker 's Mills : it is starting to green up .
The ice in Matty Tellingham 's cow-pond has gone out , and the patches of snow in the tract of forest called the Big Woods have all begun to shrink .
It seems that the old and wonderful trick is going to happen again .
Spring is going to come .
The townsfolk celebrate it in small ways in spite of the shadow that has fallen over the town .
Gramma Hague bakes pies and sets them out on the kitchen windowsill to cool .
On Sunday , at the Grace Baptist Church , the Reverend Lester Lowe reads from The Song of Solomon and preaches a sermon titled `` The Spring of the Lord 's Love . ''
On a more secular note , Chris Wrightson , the biggest drunk in Tarker 's Mills , throws his Great Spring Drunk and staggers off in the silvery , unreal light of a nearly full April moon .
Billy Robertson , bartender and proprietor of the pub , Tarker 's Mills ' only saloon , watches him go and mutters to the barmaid , `` If that wolf takes someone tonight , I guess it 'll be Chris . ''
`` Do n't talk about it , '' the barmaid replies , shuddering .
Her name is Elise Fournier , she is twenty-four , and she attends the Grace Baptist and sings in the choir because she has a crush on the Rev .
Lowe .
But she plans to leave the Mills by summer ; crush or no crush , this wolf business has begun to scare her .
She has begun to think that the tips might be better in Portsmouth ... and the only wolves there wore sailors ' uniforms .
Nights in Tarker 's Mills as the moon grows fat for the third time that year are uncomfortable times ... the days are better .
On the town common , there is suddenly a skyful of kites each afternoon .
Brady Kincaid , eleven years old , has gotten a Vulture for his birthday and has lost all track of time in his pleasure at feeling the kite tug in his hands like a live thing , watching it dip and swoop through the blue sky above the bandstand .
He has forgotten about going home for supper , he is unaware that the other kite-fliers have left one by one , with their box-kites and tent-kites and Aluminum Fliers tucked securely under their arms , unaware that he is alone .
It is the fading daylight and advancing blue shadows which finally make him realize he has lingered too long-that , and the moon just rising over the woods at the edge of the park .
For the first time it is a warm-weather moon , bloated and orange instead of a cold white , but Brady does n't notice this ; he is only aware that he has stayed too long , his father is probably going to whup him ... and dark is coming .
At school , he has laughed at his schoolmates ' fanciful tales of the werewolf they say killed the drifter last month , Stella Randolph the month before , Arnie Westrum the month before that .
But he does n't laugh now .
As the moon turns April dusk into a bloody furnace-glow , the stories seem all too real .
He begins to wind twine onto his ball as fast as he can , dragging the Vulture with its two bloodshot eyes out of the darkening sky .
He brings it in too fast , and the breeze suddenly dies .
As a result , the kite dives behind the bandstand .
He starts toward it , winding up string as he goes , glancing nervously back over his shoulder ... and suddenly the string begins to twitch and move in his hands , sawing back and forth .
It reminds him of the way his fishing pole feels when he 's hooked a big one in Tarker 's Stream , above the Mills .
He looks at it , frowning , and the line goes slack .
A shattering roar suddenly fills the night and Brady Kincaid screams .
He believes now , Yes , he believes now , all right , but it 's too late and his scream is lost under that snarling roar that rises in a sudden , chilling glissade to a howl .
The wolf is running toward him , running on two legs , its shaggy pelt painted orange with moonfire , its eyes glaring green lamps , and in one paw - a paw with human fingers and claws where the nails should be-is Brady 's Vulture kite .
It is fluttering madly .
Brady turns to run and dry arms suddenly encircle him ; he can smell something like blood and cinnamon , and he is found the next day propped against the War Memorial , headless and disembowelled , the Vulture kite in one stiffening hand .
The kite flutters , as if trying for the sky , as the search-party turn away , horrified and sick .
It flutters because the breeze has already come up .
It flutters as if it knows this will be a good day for kites .
MAY On the night before Homecoming Sunday at the Grace Baptist Church , the Reverend Lester Lowe has a terrible dream from which he awakes , trembling , bathed in sweat , staring at the narrow windows of the parsonage .
Through them , across the road , he can see his church .
Moonlight falls through the parsonage 's bedroom windows in still silver beams , and for one moment he fully expects to see the werewolf the old codgers have all been whispering about .
Then he closes his eyes , begging for forgiveness for his superstitious lapse , finishing his prayer by whispering the `` For Jesus ' sake , amen '' - so his mother taught him to end all his prayers .
Ah , but the dream ...
In his dream it was tomorrow and he had been preaching the Homecoming Sermon .
The church is always filled on Homecoming Sunday ( only the oldest of the old codgers still call it Old Home Sunday now ) , and instead of looking out on pews half or wholly empty as he does on most Sundays , every bench is full .
In his dream he has been preaching with a fire and a force that he rarely attains in reality ( he tends to drone , which may be one reason that Grace Baptist 's attendance has fallen off so drastically in the last ten years or so ) .
This morning his tongue seems to have been touched with the Pentecostal Fire , and he realizes that he is preaching the greatest sermon of his life , and its subject is this : THE BEAST WALKS AMONG US .
Over and over he hammers at the point , vaguely aware that his voice has grown roughly strong , that his words have attained an almost poetic rhythm .
The Beast , he tells them , is everywhere .
The Great Satan , he tells them , can be anywhere .
At a high school dance .
Buying a deck of Marlboros and a Bic butane lighter down at the Trading Post .
Standing in front of Brighton 's Drug , eating a Slim Jim , and waiting for the 4:40 Greyhound from Bangor to pull in .
The Beast might be sitting next to you at a band concert or having a piece of pie at the Chat 'n Chew on Main Street .
The Beast , he tells them , his voice dropping to a whisper that throbs , and no eye wanders .
He has them in thrall .
Watch for the Beast , for he may smile and say he is your neighbor , but oh my brethren , his teeth are sharp and you may mark the uneasy way in which his eyes roll .
He is the Beast , and he is here , now , in Tarker 's Mills .
He But here he breaks off , his eloquence gone , because something terrible is happening out there in his sunny church .
His congregation is beginning to change , and he realizes with horror that they are turning into werewolves , all of them , all three hundred of them : Victor Bowle , the head selectman , usually so white and fat and pudgy ... his skin is turning brown , roughening , darkening with hair !
Violet MacKenzie , who teaches piano ... her narrow spinster 's body is filling out , her thin nose flattening and splaying !
The fat science teacher , Elbert Freeman , seems to be growing fatter , his shiny blue suit is splitting , clocksprings of hair are bursting out like the stuffing from an old sofa !
His fat lips split back like bladders to reveal teeth the size of piano keys !
The Beast , the Rev .
Lowe tries to say in his dreams , but the words fail him and he stumbles back from the pulpit in horror as Cal Blodwin , the Grace Baptist 's head deacon , shambles down the center aisle , snarling , money spilling from the silver collection plate , his head cocked to one side .
Violet MacKenzie leaps on him and they roll in the aisle together , biting and shrieking in voices which are almost human .
And now the others join in and the sound is like the zoo at feeding-time , and this time the Rev .
Lowe screams it out , in a kind of ecstasy : `` The Beast !
The Beast is everywhere !
Everywhere !
Every- '' But his voice is no longer his voice ; it has become an inarticulate snarling sound , and when he looks down , he sees the hands protruding from the sleeves of his good black suitcoat have become snaggled paws .
And then he awakes .
Only a dream , he thinks , lying back down again .
Only a dream , thank God .
But when he opens the church doors that morning , the morning of Homecoming Sunday , the morning after the full moon , it is no dream he sees ; it is the gutted body of Clyde Corliss , who has done janitorial work for years , hanging face-down over the pulpet .
His push-broom leans close by .
None of this is a dream ; the Rev .
Lowe only wishes it could be .
He opens his mouth , hitches in a great , gasping breath , and begins to scream .
JUNE On the shortest night of the year , Alfie Knopfler , who runs the Chat 'n Chew , Tarker 's Mills ' only cafe , polishes his long Formica counter to a gleaming brightness , the sleeves of his white shirt rolled to past his muscular , tattooed elbows .
The cafe is for the moment completely empty , and as he finishes with the counter , he pauses for a moment , looking out into the street , thinking that he lost his virginity on a fragrant early summer night like this one -the girl had been Arlene McCune , who is now Arlene Bessey , and married to one of Bangor 's most successful young lawyers .
God , how she had moved that night on the back seat of his car , and how sweet the night had smelled !
The door into summer swings open and lets in a bright tide of moonlight .
He supposes the cafe is deserted because the Beast is supposed to walk when the moon in full , but Alfie is neither scared nor worried ; not scared because he weighs twotwenty and most of it is still good old Navy muscle , not worried because he knows the regulars will be in bright and early tomorrow morning for their eggs and their homefries and coffee .
Maybe , he thinks , I 'll close her up a little early tonight-shut off the coffee urn , button her up , get a six-pack down at the Market Basket , and take in the second picture at the drive-in .
June , June , full moon - a good night for the drive-in and a few beers .
A good night to remember the conquests of the past .
He is turning toward the coffee-maker when the door opens , and he turns back , resigned .
`` Say !
How you doin ' ? ''
he asks , because the customer is one of his regulars ... although he rarely sees this customer later than ten in the morning .
The customer nods , and the two of them pass a few friendly words .
`` Coffee ? ''
Alfie asks , as the customer slips onto one of the padded red counter-stools .
`` Please . ''
Well , still time to catch that second show , Alfie thinks , turning to the coffee-maker .
He do n't look like he 's good for Long .
Tired .
Similarly in the fifties , the comics industry choked offsuch outlaw growths as E.C .
's Tales from the Crypt and instituted a Comics Code when it became clear that Congress intended to clean their house for them if they would not clean it for themselves .
There would be no more tales of dismemberment , corpses come back from the dead , and premature burials - or at least not for the next ten years .
The return was signalled by the unpretentious birth of Creepy , a Warren Group magazine which was a complete throwback to the salad days of Bill Gaines 's E.G .
horror comics .
Uncle Creepy , and his buddy Cousin Eerie , who came along two years or so later , were really interchangeable with the Old Witch and the Crypt-Keeper .
Even some of the old artists were back -Joe Orlando , who made his debut as an E.G .
artist , was also represented in the premiere issue of Creepy , if memory serves .
I would suggest that there has always been a great tendency , particularly when it comes to such popular forms as movies , television , and mainstream fiction , to kill the messenger for the message .
I do not now and never have doubted that the youths who burned the lady in Roxbury got the idea from the telecast of Fuzz one Sunday night on ABC ; if it had not been shown , stupidity and lack of imagination might well have reduced them to murdering her in some more mundane way .
The same holds true with many of the other cases mentioned here .
The danse macabre is a waltz with death .
This is a truth we can not afford to shy away from .
Like the rides in the amusement park which mimic violent death , the tale of horror is a chance to examine what 's going on behind doors which we usually keep double-locked .
Yet the human imagination is not content with locked doors .
Somewhere there is another dancing partner , the imagination whispers in the night - a partner in a rotting ball gown , a partner with empty eyesockets , green mold growing on her elbow-length gloves , maggots squirming in the thin remains of her hair .
To hold such a creature in our arms ?
Who , you ask me , would be so mad ?
Well ... ?
'You will not want to open this door , ' Bluebeard tells his wife in that most horrible of all horror stories , 'because your husband has forbidden it . '
But this , of course , only makes her all the more curious ... and at last , her curiosity is satisfied .
'You may go anywhere you wish in the castle , ' Count Dracula tells Jonathan Harker , 'except where the doors arc locked , where of course you will not wish to go . '
But Harker goes soon enough .
And so do we all .
Perhaps we go to the forbidden door or window willingly because we understand that a time comes when we must go whether we want to or not ... and not just to look , but to be pushed through .
Forever .
Baltimore , 1980 .
The woman is reading a book and waiting for her bus to arrive .
The demobbed soldier who approaches her is a Vietnam vet , a sometime dope addict .
He has a history of mental problems which seem to date from his period of service .
The woman has noticed him on the bus before , sometimes weaving , sometimes staggering , sometimes calling loudly and wildly to people who are ml there .
'That 's right .
Captain ! '
she has heard him say .
'That 's right , that 's right ! '
He attacks the woman as she waits for her bus ; later , the police will theorize he was after drug money .
No matter .
He will bejust as dead , no matter what he was after .
The neighborhood is a tough one .
The woman has a knife secreted upon her person .
In the struggle , she uses it .
When the bus comes , the black ex-soldier lits dying in the gutter .
You are , in short , immoral .
A critic asked George Romero , following the release of Dawn of the Dead , if he felt such a movie , with its scenes of gore , cannibalism , and gaudy pop violence , was a sign of a healthy society .
Romero 's reply , worthy of the Hitchcock anecdote related earlier , was to ask the critic if he felt the DC-io engine-mount assembly was a healthy thing for society .
His response was dismissed as a quibble ( 'You get the impression Romero likes this kind of sparring , ' I can almost hear the critic thinking ) .
Well , let 's see if the quibble really is a quibble - and let 's go one layer deeper than we have yet gone .
The hour has grown late , the last waltz is playing , and if we do n't say certain things now , I suppose we never will .
I 've tried to suggest throughout this book that the horror story , beneath its fangs and fright wig , is really as conservative as an Illinois Republican in a three-piece pinstriped suit ; that its main purpose is to reaffirm the virtues of the norm by showing us what awful things happen to people who venture into taboo lands .
Within the framework of most horror tales we find a moral code so strong it would make a Puritan smile .
In the old E.G .
comics , adulterers inevitably came to bad ends and murderers suffered fates that would make the rack and the boot look like kiddy rides at the carnival .
* Modern horror stories are not much different from the morality plays of the fifteenth , sixteenth , and seventeenth centuries , when we get right down to it .
The horror story most generally not only stands foursquare for the Ten Commandments , it blows them up to tabloid size .
We have the comforting knowledge when the lights go down in the theater or when we open the book that the evildoers will almost certainly be punished , and measure will be returned for measure .
Further , I 've used one pompously academic metaphor , suggesting that the horror tale generally details the outbreak of some Dionysian madness in an Apollonian existence , and that the horror will continue until the Dionysian forces have been repelled and the Apollonian norm restored again .
Excluding a powerful if puzzling prologue set in Iraq , William Friedkin 's film The Exonist actually begins in Georgetown , an Apollonian suburb if ever there was one .
In the first scene , Ellen Burstyn is awakened by a crashing , roaring sound in the attic ¨C it sounds like maybe someone let a lion loose up there .
It is the first crack in the Apollonian world ; soon everything else will pour through in a nightmare torrent .
But this disturbing crack between our normal world and a chaos where demons are allowed to prey on innocent children is §ݹ all-time favorite ( he said affectionately ) : A crazed husband stuffs the hose of an air compressor down his skinny wife 's throat and blows her up like a balloon until she bursts .
'Fal at last , ' he tells her happily just moments before the pop .
But later on the husband , who is roughly the size ofJackie Gleason , trips a booby-trap she has set for him and is squashed to a shadow when a huge safe falls on him .
This ingenious reworking of the old story of Jack Sprat and his wife is not only gruesomely funny ; it offers us a delicious example of the Old Testament eye-for-an-eye theory .
Or , as the Spanish say , revenge is a dish best eaten cold .
Finally closed again at the end of the film .
When Burstyn leads the pallid but obviously okay Linda Blair to the car in the film 's final scene , we understand that the nightmare is over .
Steady state has been restored .
We have watched for the mutant and repulsed it .
Equilibrium never felt so good .
Those are some of the things we 've talked about in this book ... but suppose all of that is only a sham and a false front ?
I do n't say that it is , but perhaps ( since this is the last dance ) we ought to discuss the possibility , at least .
In our discussion of archetypes , we 've had occasion to discuss the Werewolf , that fellow who is sometimes hairy and who is sometimes deceptively smooth .
Suppose there was a double werewolf ?
Suppose that the creator of the horror story was , under his/her fright wig and plastic fangs , a Republican in a three-button suit , as we have said ... ah , but suppose below that there is a real monster , with real fangs and a squirming Medusa-tangle of snakes for hair ?
Suppose it 's all a self-serving lie and that when the creator of horror is finally stripped all the way to his or her core of being we find not an agent of the norm but a friend - a capering , gleeful , red-eyed agent of chaos ?
What about that possibility , friends and neighbors ?
16 About five years ago I finished The Shining , took a month off , and then set about writing a new novel , the working title of which was The House on Value Street .
It seemed to me to be a highly potent subject , and while I was aware that lots of nonfiction books were sure to be written on the subject , it seemed to me that only a novel might really succeed in explaining all the contra-dictions .
The novelist is , after all , God 's liar , and if he does his job well , keeps his head and his courage , he can sometimes find the truth that lives at the center of the lie .
Well , I never wrote that book .
I gathered my research materials , such as they were , to hand ( Patty was still at large then , which was another attraction the idea had for me ; I could make up my own ending ) , and then I attacked the novel .
I attacked it from one side and nothing happened .
I tried it from another side and felt it was going pretty well until I discovered all my characters sounded as if they had just stepped whole and sweaty from the dance marathon in Horace McCoy 's They Shoot Horses , Do n't They ?
I tried it in medias res .
I tried to imagine it as a stage play , a trick that sometimes works for me when I 'm badly stuck .
It did n't work this time .
In his marvelous novel The Hair of Harold Roux , Thomas Williams tells us that writing a long work of fiction is like gathering characters together on a great black plain .
They stand around the small fire of the writer 's invention , warming their hands at the blaze , hoping the fire will grow into a blaze which will provide light as well as heat .
But often it goes out , all light is extinguished , and the characters are smothered in black .
It 's a lovely metaphor for the fiction-making process , but it 's not mine ... maybe it 's too gentle to be mine .
I 've always seen the novel as a large black castle to be attacked , a bastion to be taken by force or by trick .
The thing about this castle is , it appears to be open .
It does n't look buttoned up for siege at all .
The drawbridge is down .
The gates are open .
There are no bowmen on the turrets .
Trouble is , there 's really only one safe way in ; every other attempt at entry results in sudden annihilation from some hidden source .
With my Patty Hearst book , I never found the right way in ... and during that entire six-week period , something else was nagging very quietly at the back of my mind .
This world is huge , complicated , terrifying .
So many people and machines .
You can travel anywhere and communicate in ways I never even dreamt of when I first lived .
How are you supposed to find a place for yourself in a world this convoluted and uncaring ?
Life was much simpler sixteen hundred years ago .
Most people never travelled more than a few kilometres from the spot where they were born .
Men sometimes went off to fight in distant countries , and came back with tales of strangely dressed folk who spoke different languages and believed in frightful gods .
But girls and women rarely saw such sights , unless they were kidnapped by rival warriors and carted off .
It was a peaceful time when I was born .
No great wars .
Food was plentiful .
Laws were respected by most clans .
We built huts , made our own clothes , farmed the land , herded tame animals , hunted the wild .
We married young , bore lots of children , worshipped our gods and died happily if we lived to be forty .
Then demons invaded .
They attacked without mercy and dug up the remains of our dead , creating new beasts out of the rotting flesh and bones , turning our own ancestors against us .
We fought as best we could , but for each one we killed , five more appeared .
They terrorised villages across the land .
It was only a matter of time before we would all suffer horrible , painful deaths .
In our darkest hour , an unlikely saviour appeared .
A gruff druid led a small band of our warriors on a mission to send the demons back to their foul universe .
I went with them , and so did a simple boy known only as Bran .
We drove back the demons , but one of them-Lord Loss , a red-skinned demon master with eight arms and no heart-imprisoned me in a cave beneath the earth .
I was shut off from the world of light .
In the darkness , he sent his familiars to torture and kill me .
The pain was unbearable and death , when it came , was a relief .
At least it should have been .
But for some unknown reason , when my body perished , my soul remained trapped in the cave .
There was to be no escape for me , even in death .
I was held captive for many long , depressing centuries .
Mine was a world of darkness and absolute desolation .
Lacking a body , I could n't even sleep .
I was conscious for every minute of every long day and night .
I could n't see or learn anything of the human world , but I was at the focal point of what had once been a tunnel between the Demonata 's universe and ours .
By focusing hard , I could trace the shattered strands of the tunnel back to their source , and from there magically peer into the demons ' den .
Not a lot happened in that part of the universe , but demons occasionally drifted by or stopped to test the tunnel in the hope that they might be able to rekindle it .
I worried that one of them might succeed , so I kept a close watch .
After sixteen hundred years my worries proved well-founded .
For the first time I sensed movement in the human world .
A boy of great power had come to live in the area close to the cave .
I could feel him being manipulated .
He was led to the cave and tricked into trying to reopen the tunnel .
I tried to warn the boy , to stop him .
But he could n't understand me .
The tunnel was reactivated and demons flooded through in their thousands .
That should have been the end , but the boy returned when all seemed lost .
He came with another teenager and an elderly magician-Bran !
My old friend had survived and grown more powerful than any of us could have imagined .
As strong as Bran and the boys were , it was n't enough .
Hundreds of demons stood between them and the cave .
They tried to break through , but failed .
It looked like everything was finished .
Then something remarkable happened .
A magical force connected me with the boys .
It united the three of us and we became the Kah-Gash , an ancient weapon of incredible power .
Without knowing what we were doing , we took the universes back through time , to the night when the tunnel was opened .
Bran and the boys seized this fresh opportunity and put a stop to the onslaught , denying the demon hordes access to our world .
During the battle an innocent bystander-a boy called Bill-E Spleen-was killed .
I felt myself drawn to the dead boy As my spirit seeped into his corpse , I found myself capable of restoring the body 's functions .
I set the heart beating and it pumped blood through the veins and arteries .
The brain sparked at my urging .
Lungs rose and fell .
Bill-E drew breath ... and so did I .
My first free breath after sixteen hundred years of imprisonment .
No words can describe the deliciousness of that .
As Bran and the others stared at me , amazed and afraid , I set about altering the body I 'd taken over , reshaping it , giving it my face , my build , my sex .
Within hours it was a boy 's body no longer , but a girl 's , with breath , a heartbeat , bones , guts , flesh , blood , a face .
I was alive !
What amazes me most about this modern world is that people are n't more amazed .
I first lived in a time of magic , with priestesses and druids who could perform wondrous feats .
But we had nothing like aeroplanes , computers , televisions , cars .
We were servants of the natural world , ignorant of the ways of the universe and the origins of our planet .
We did n't even know the Earth was round !
Today 's people have mastered the land and seas , and even made inroads into the heavens-they can fly !
There are things they ca n't control , like earthquakes and floods , but for the most part they 've torn down trees , carved the planet up with roads and made it theirs .
They 've hurt the Earth , and they do n't seem as happy as people in my time were , but they 've achieved the incredible .
I 've been here more than six months , yet I still find a dozen things each day that make my jaw drop .
Like a pencil .
How do they put lead inside wood ?
And paper-nobody thinks twice about it , but in my previous life , if you wanted to record a message , you had to hammer notches out of a chunk of rock .
It 's a terrifying world and I should n't be able to cope with it .
I came back to life as a small , scared , lonely girl .
If I 'd stepped out of the cave knowing nothing of what lay beyond , I 'd have fainted with shock and gone on fainting every time I recovered and looked around .
But when I took over Bill-E Spleen 's body , his memories became mine .
It took me a few weeks to process everything , but I soon knew all that he did .
That helped me make sense of this new world and deal with it .
Without access to Bill-E 's memories I would n't have known how to use a knife and fork , knot a pair of laces , open a door or do any of the simple , everyday tasks that everyone else takes for granted .
But as helpful as that 's been , it 's also proved to be one of my biggest problems .
Because I live with Bill-E 's uncle , Dervish Grady , and I made the mistake of telling him about Bill-E 's memories .
As a result , he sees me as some kind of a medium , offering him unlimited access to his dead nephew 's feelings and thoughts .
`` Tell me about Billy 's first day at school . ''
We 're in Dervish 's study on the top floor of the house .
The mansion is a three-storey monster , full of round , stained-glass windows , wooden floorboards and bare stone walls .
( Except in this study , which is lined with leather panels . )
All of the people from my village could have lived in comfort here .
When I first saw it , I thought it was a communal building .
`` His first day at school ? ''
I chew my lower lip , as though I have to think hard to retrieve the memories .
Dervish watches me intently , hands crossed on the desk in front of him , eyes hard .
I do n't enjoy these sessions .
I 've always been able to play with the lights .
I remember being three or four years old , the lights all around me , reaching out and moving them , trying to fit them together like jigsaw pieces .
Normally , the lights remain at a distance of several feet , but I can call them closer when I want to play with them .
The patches are n't solid .
They 're like floating scraps of plastic .
If I look at a patch from the side , it 's almost invisible .
I can put my fingers through them , like ordinary pools of light .
But , despite that , when I want to move a patch , I can .
If I focus on a light , it glides towards me , stopping when I tell it .
Reaching out , I push at one of the edges with my fingers .
I do n't actually touch it , but as my fingers get closer , the light moves in whatever direction I 'm pushing .
When I stop , the light stops .
I figured out very early on that I could put patches together to make patterns .
I 've been doing it ever since , at night , or during lunch at school when I have nobody to play with .
Lately , I 've been playing with them more than ever .
Sometimes , the lights are the only way I have to escape the miserable loneliness .
I like making weird shapes , like Picasso paintings .
I saw a programme on him at school a couple of years ago and felt an immediate connection .
I think Picasso saw lights too , only he did n't tell anyone .
People would n't have thought he was a great artist if he said he saw lights - they 'd have said he was a nutcase , like me .
The shapes I make are nowhere near as fabulous as Pablo Picasso 's paintings .
I 'm no artist .
I just try to create interesting designs .
They 're rough , but I like them .
They never last .
The shapes hold for as long as I 'm studying them , but once I lose interest , or fall asleep , they come undone and the pieces drift apart , returning to their original positions in the air around me .
The one I 'm making tonight is particularly jumbled .
I 'm finding it hard to concentrate .
Joining the pieces randomly , with no real purpose .
It 's a mess .
I ca n't stop thinking about not having any friends .
Feeling wretched .
Wishing I had at least one true friend , someone who 'd care about me and play with me , so I was n't completely alone .
As I 'm thinking about that , a few of the patches pulse .
No big deal .
Lights have pulsed before .
Usually , I ignore them .
But tonight , sad and desperate to divert my train of thought , I summon a couple , study them with a frown , then put them together and call for the rest of the flashing patches .
As I add those pieces to the first two , more lights pulse , some slowly , some quickly .
I sit up , working with more speed .
This new flashing shape is curious .
I 've never put pulsing patches together before .
As I add to the cluster , more lights pulse .
I quickly slot them into place , working as if on autopilot .
I have no control over myself .
I keep watching for a pattern to emerge , but there is n't one .
Just a mass of different pulsing colours .
Still , it 's worked its magic .
I 'm focused on the cluster of lights now , dark thoughts and fears temporarily forgotten .
The lights build and build .
This is a massive structure , much larger than any I 've previously created .
I 'm sweating and my arms are aching .
I want to stop and rest , but I ca n't .
I 'm obsessed with the pulsing lights .
This must be what addiction is like .
Then , without warning , the patches that I 've stuck together stop pulsing and all glow a light blue colour .
I fall back , gasping , as if I 'd got an electric shock .
I 've never seen this happen .
It scares me .
A huge blue , jagged patch of light at the foot of my bed .
It 's like a window .
Large enough for a person to fit through .
My first thought is to flee , call for Mum and Dad , get out as quick as I can .
But part of me holds firm .
An inner voice whispers in my ear , telling me to stay .
This is your window to a life of wonders , it says .
But be careful , it adds , as I move closer to the light .
Windows open both ways .
As it says that , a shape presses through , out of the panel of light .
A face .
I 'm too horrified to scream .
It 's a monster from my very worst nightmare .
Pale red skin .
A pair of dark red eyes .
No nose .
A small mouth .
Sharp , grey teeth .
As it leans further forward into my bedroom , I see more of it and the horror intensifies .
It does n't have a heart !
There 's a hole in the left side of its chest , but where the heart should be are dozens of tiny , hissing snakes .
The monster frowns and stretches a hand towards me .
I can see more than two arms - at least four or five .
I want to pull away .
Dive beneath my bed .
Scream for help .
But the voice that spoke to me a few seconds ago wo n't let me .
It whispers quickly , words I ca n't follow .
And I find myself standing firm , taking a step towards the panel of light and its emerging monster .
I raise my right hand and watch the fingers curl into a fist .
I can feel a strange tingling sensation , like pins and needles .
The monster stops .
Its eyes narrow .
It looks round my bedroom uncertainly .
Then slowly , smoothly , it withdraws , pulling back into the panel of light , vanishing gradually until only its red eyes remain , staring out at me from within the surrounding blueness , twin circles of an unspoken evil .
Then they 're gone too and I 'm alone again , just me and the light .
I should be wailing for help , running for my life , cowering on the floor .
But instead my fingers relax and my fist unclenches .
I 'm facing the panel of blue light , staring at it like a zombie transfixed by a fresh human brain , distantly processing information .
Normally , the patches of light are transparent , but I ca n't see through this one .
If I look round it , there 's my bedroom wall , a chest of drawers , toys and socks scattered across the floor .
but he thought the car was white , which meant it was n't the State Police .
`` Making myself small , '' Peter said .
`` Wee sleekit cowrin beastie .
There 's a cop behind us and he 's in a hurry .
Maybe he 's got a line on - `` The police-car blasted by , making the Acura which belonged to Peter 's sister rock in its backwash .
It was indeed white , and dusty from the doorhandles down .
There was a decal on the side , but the car was gone before Pete caught more than a glimpse of it .
DES-something .
Destry , maybe .
That was a good name for a Nevada town out here in the big lonely. ''
- on the guy who nailed the cat to the speed-limit sign , '' Peter finished .
`` Why 's he going so fast with his flashers off ? ''
`` Who 's there to run them for out here ? ''
`` Well , '' she said , giving him that odd-funny look again , `` there 's nobody but we . ''
He opened his mouth to reply , then closed it again .
She was right .
The cop must have been seeing them for at least as long as they 'd been seeing him , maybe longer , so why had n't he flipped on his lights and flashers , just to be safe ?
Of course Peter had known enough to get over on his own , give the cop as much of the road as he possibly could , but still - The police car 's taillights suddenly came on .
Peter hit his own brake without even thinking of it , although he had already slowed to sixty and the cruiser was far enough ahead so there was no chance of a collision .
Then the cruiser swerved over into the westbound lane .
`` What 's he doing ? ''
Mary asked .
`` I do n't know , exactly . ''
But of course he knew : he was slowing down .
From his cut-em-off-at-the-pass eighty-five or ninety he had dropped to fifty .
Frowning , not wanting to catch up and not knowing why , Peter slowed even more himself .
The speedometer of Deirdre 's car dropped down toward forty .
`` Peter ? ''
Mary sounded alarmed .
`` Peter , I do n't like this . ''
`` It 's all right , '' he said , but was it ?
He stared at the cop-car , now tooling slowly up the westbound lane to his left , and wondered .
He tried to get a look at the person behind the wheel and could n't .
The cruiser 's rear window was caked with desert dust .
Its taillights , also caked with dust , flickered briefly as the car slowed even more .
Now it was doing barely thirty .
A tumbleweed bounced into the road , and the cruiser 's radial tires crushed it under .
It came out the back looking to Peter Jackson like a nestle of broken fingers .
All at once he was frightened , very close to terror , in fact , and he had n't the slightest idea why .
Because Nevada 's full of intense people , Marielle said so and Gary agreed , and this is how intense people act .
In - a word , weird .
Of course that was bullshit , this really was n't weird , not very weird , anyhow , although - The cop-car taillights flickered some more .
Peter pressed his own brake in response , not even thinking about what he was doing for a second , then looking at the speedometer and seeing he was down to twenty-five .
`` What does he want , Pete ? ''
By now , that was pretty obvious .
`` To be behind us again .
Why ? ''
`` I do n't know . ''
`` Why did n't he just pull over on the shoulder and let us go past , if that 's what he wants ? ''
`` I do n't know that , either . ''
`` What are you going to - `` '' Go by , of course . ''
And then , for no reason at all , he added : `` After all , we did n't nail the goddam cat to the speed-limit sign . ''
He pushed down on the accelerator and immediately began to catch up with the dusty cruiser , which was now floating along at no more than twenty .
Mary grabbed the shoulder of his blue workshirt hard enough for him to feel the pressure of her short finger nails .
`` No , do n't . ''
`` Mare , there 's not a lot else I can do . ''
And the conversation was already obsolete , because he was going by even as he spoke .
Deirdre 's Acura drew alongside the dusty white Caprice , then passed it .
Peter looked through two pieces of glass and saw very little .
A big shape , a man-shape , that was about all .
Plus the sense that the driver of the police-car was looking back at him .
Peter glanced down at the decal on the passenger door .
Now he had time to read it : DESPERATION POLICE DEPARTMENT in gold letters below the town seal , which appeared to be a miner and a horseman shaking hands .
Desperation , he thought .
Even better than Destry .
Much better .
As soon as he was past , the white car swung back into the eastbound lane , speeding up to stay on the Acura 's bumper .
They travelled that way for thirty or forty sec-onds ( to Peter it felt considerably longer ) .
Then the blue flashers on the Caprice 's roof came on .
Peter felt a sinking in his stomach , but it was n't surprise .
Not at all .
2 Mary still had hold of him , and now , as Peter swung onto the shoulder , she began digging in again .
`` What are you doing ?
Peter , what are you doing ? ''
`` Stopping .
He 's got his flashers on and he 's pulling me over . ''
`` 1 do n't like it , '' she said , looking nervously around .
There was nothing to look at but desert , foothills , and leagues of blue sky .
`` What were we doing ? ''
`` Speeding seems logical . ''
He was looking in the out-side mirror .
Above the words CAUTION OBJECTS MAY BE CLOSER THAN THEY APPEAR , he saw the dusty white driver 's door of the cop-car swing open .
A khaki leg swung out .
It was prodigious .
As the man it belonged to followed it out , swung the door of his cruiser closed , and settled his Smokey Bear hat on his head ( he would n't have been wearing it in the car , Peter supposed ; not enough clearance ) , Mary turned around to look .
Her mouth dropped ajar .
`` Holy God , he 's the size of a football player ! ''
`` At least , '' Peter said .
Doing a rough mental calculation that used the roof of the car as a steering-point - about five feet - he guessed that the cop approaching Deirdre 's Acura had to be at least six-five .
And over two hundred and fifty pounds .
Probably over three hundred .
Mary let go of him and scooted over against her door as far as she could , away from the approaching giant .
On one hip the cop wore a gun as big as the rest of him , but his hands were empty - no clipboard , no citation-book .
Peter did n't like that .
He did n't know what it meant , but he did n't like it .
In his entire career as a driver , which had included four speeding tickets as a teenager and one OUI ( after the faculty Christmas party three years ago ) , he had never been approached by an empty-handed cop , and he most definitely did n't like it .
His heartbeat , already faster than normal , sped up a little more .
His heart was n't pounding , at least not yet , but he sensed it could pound .
That it could pound very easily .
You 're being stupid , you know that , do n't you ?
I 'm not human .
I do n't need spells to use against other fey , but I know there are stories of magic that can make us weak , catchable , and hurtable . ''
`` Yeah , are n't these kind of fey supposed to be immortal ? ''
I stared down at the tiny lifeless bodies .
Once the answer would have simply been yes , but I 'd learned from some of the lesser fey at the Unseelie Court that some of them had died falling down stairs , and other mundane causes .
Their immortality was n't what it used to be , but we had not publicized that to the humans .
One of the things that kept us safe was that the humans thought they could n't hurt us easily .
Had some human learned the truth and exploited it ?
Was the mortality among the lesser fey getting worse ?
Or had they been immortal and magic had stolen it away ?
`` Merry , you in there ? ''
I nodded and looked at her , glad to look away from the bodies .
`` Sorry , I just never get used to seeing this kind of thing . ''
`` Oh , you get used to it , '' she said , `` but I hope you do n't see enough dead bodies to be that jaded . ''
She sighed , as if she wished she was n't that jaded either .
`` You asked me if the demi-fey are immortal , and the answer is yes . ''
It was all I could say to her until I found out if the mortality of the fey was spreading .
So far it had only been a few cases inside faerie .
`` Then how did the killer do this ? ''
I 'd only seen one other demi-fey killed by a blade that was n't cold iron .
A noble of the Unseelie Court had wielded that one .
A noble of faerie , and my blood kin .
We 'd killed the sidhe who did it , although he said that he had n't meant to kill her .
He had just meant to wound her through the heart as her desertion of him had wounded his heart - poetic and the kind of romantic drivel you get when you 're used to being surrounded by beings who can have their heads chopped off and still live .
That last bit has n't worked in a long time even among the sidhe , but we have n't shared that either .
No one likes to talk about the fact that their people are losing their magic and their power .
Was the killer a sidhe ?
Somehow I did n't think so .
They might kill a lesser fey out of arrogance or a sense of privilege , but this had the taste of something much more convoluted than that - a motive that only the killer would understand .
I looked carefully at my own reasoning to make certain I was n't talking myself out of the Unseelie Court , the Darkling Throng , being suspects .
The court that I had been offered rulership of and given up for love .
The tabloids were still talking about the fairy-tale ending , but people had died , some of them by my hand , and , like most fairy tales , it had been more about blood and being true to yourself than about love .
Love had just been the emotion that had led me to what I truly wanted , and who I truly was .
I guess there are worse emotions to follow .
`` What are you thinking , Merry ? ''
`` I 'm thinking that I wonder what emotion led the killer to do this , to want to do this . ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
`` It takes something like love to put this much attention into the details .
Did the killer love this book or did he love the small fey ?
Did he hate this book as a child ?
Is it the clue to some horrible trauma that twisted him to do this ? ''
`` Do n't start profiling on me , Merry ; we 've got people paid to do that . ''
`` I 'm just doing what you taught me , Lucy .
Murder is like any skill ; it does n't fall out of the box perfect .
This is perfect . ''
`` The killer probably spent years fantasizing about this scene , Merry .
They wanted , needed it to be perfect . ''
`` But it never is .
That 's what serial killers say when the police interview them .
Some of them try again and again for the real-life kill to match the fantasy , but it never does , so they kill again and again to try to make it perfect . ''
Lucy smiled at me .
`` You know , that 's one of the things I always liked about you . ''
`` What ? ''
I asked .
`` You do n't just rely on the magic ; you actually try to be a good detective . ''
`` Is n't that what I 'm supposed to do ? ''
I asked .
`` Yeah , but you 'd be surprised how many psychics and wizards are great at the magic but suck at the actual detecting part . ''
`` No , I would n't , but remember , I did n't have that much magic until a few months ago . ''
`` That 's right , you were a late bloomer . ''
And she smiled again .
Once I 'd thought it was strange that the police could smile over a body , but I 'd learned that you either lighten up about it or you transfer out of homicide , or better yet , you get out of police work .
`` I 've already checked , Merry .
There are no other homicides even close to this one .
No demi-fey killed in a group .
No costumes .
No book illustration left .
This is one of a kind . ''
`` Maybe it is , but you helped teach me that killers do n't start out this good .
Maybe they just planned it perfectly and got lucky that it was this perfect , or maybe they 've had other kills that were n't this good , this thought-out , but it would be staged , and it would have this feel to it . ''
`` What kind of feel ? ''
she asked .
`` You thought film not just because it would give you more leads , but because there 's something dramatic about it all .
The setting , the choice of victims , the display , the book illustration ; it 's showy . ''
She nodded .
`` Exactly , '' she said .
The wind played with my purple sundress until I had to hold it to keep it from flipping up and flashing the police line behind us .
`` I 'm sorry to drag you out to something like this on a Saturday , Merry , '' she said .
`` I did try to call Jeremy . ''
`` He 's got a new girlfriend and keeps turning off his phone . ''
I did n't begrudge my boss , the first semi-serious lover he 'd had in years .
Not really .
`` You look like you had a picnic planned . ''
`` Something like that , '' I said , `` but this did n't do your Saturday any good either . ''
She smiled ruefully .
`` I did n't have any plans . ''
She stabbed a thumb in the direction of the other police .
`` Your boyfriends are mad at me for making you look at dead bodies while you 're pregnant . ''
My hands automatically went to my stomach , which was still very flat .
I was n't showing yet , though with twins the doctor had warned me that it could go from nothing to a lot almost overnight .
I glanced back to see Doyle and Frost , standing with the policemen .
My two men were no taller than some of the police - six feet and some inches is n't that unusual - but the rest stood out painfully .
Doyle had been called the Queen 's Darkness for a thousand years , and he fit his name , black from skin to hair to the eyes behind their black wraparound sunglasses .
His black hair was in a tight braid down his back .
Only the silver earrings that climbed from lobe to the pointed tip of his ears relieved the black-on-black of his jeans , T-shirt , and leather jacket .
The last was to hide the weapons he was carrying .
He was the captain of my bodyguards , as well as one of the fathers to my unborn children , and one of my dearest loves .
The other dearest love stood beside him like a pale negative , skin as white as my own , but Frost 's hair was actually silver , like Christmas tree tinsel , shining in the sunlight .
The wind played with his hair so that it floated outward in a shimmering wave , looking like some model with a wind machine , but even though his hair was near ankle-length and unbound , it did not tangle in the wind .
I 'd asked him about that , and he 'd said simply , `` The wind likes my hair . ''
If only I , d had a gun !
I could have ended his rotten , miserable life right then if I , d only had a gun !
Miles later some sort of reason reasserted itself .
If I , d had a gun , the only thing I could have been sure of was getting myself killed .
If I , d had a gun I could have pulled over when the man using the bumper-jack beckoned me , and gotten out , and begun spraying bullets wildly around the deserted landscape .
I might have wounded someone .
Then I would have been killed and buried in a shallow grave , and Dolan would have gone on escorting the beautiful women and making pilgrimages between Las Vegas and Los Angeles in his silver Cadillac while the desert animals unearthed my remains and fought over my bones under the cold moon .
For Elizabeth there would have been no revenge none at all .
The men who travelled with him were trained to kill .
I was trained to teach third-graders .
This was not a movie , I reminded myself as I returned to the highway and passed an orange END CONSTRUCTION THE STATE OF NEVADA THANKS YOU !
sign .
And if I ever made the mistake of confusing reality with a movie , of thinking that a balding third-grade teacher with myopia could ever be Dirty Harry anywhere outside of his own daydreams , there would never be any revenge , ever .
But could there be revenge , ever ?
Could there be ?
My idea of creating a fake detour was as romantic and unrealistic as the idea of jumping out of my old Buick and spraying the three of them with bullets me , who had not fired a gun since the age of sixteen and who had never fired a handgun .
Such a thing would not be possible without a band of conspirators even the movie I had seen , romantic as it had been , had made that clear .
There had been eight or nine of them in two separate groups , staying in touch with each other by walkie-talkie .
There had even been a man in a small plane cruising above the highway to make sure the armored car was relatively isolated as it approached the right spot on the highway .
A plot no doubt dreamed up by some overweight screenwriter sitting by his swimming pool with a pina colada by one hand and a fresh supply of Pentel pens and an Edgar Wallace plot-wheel by the other .
And even that fellow had needed a small army to fulfill his idea .
I was only one man .
It wouldn , t work .
Best to dismiss it .
But it wouldn , t go .
Cut him out , the voice inside that spoke for Elizabeth kept whispering .
Cut him out the way an experienced sheep-dog cuts a ewe out of the flock when his master points .
Detour him out into the emptiness and kill him .
Kill them all .
Wouldn , t work .
If I allowed no other truth , I would at least have to allow that a man who had stayed alive as long as Dolan must have a carefully honed sense of survival honed to the point of paranoia , perhaps .
He and his men would see through the detour trick in a minute .
They turned down this one today , the voice that spoke for Elizabeth responded .
They never even hesitated .
They went just like Mary , s little lamb .
But I knew yes , somehow I did !
that men like Dolan , men who are really more like wolves than men , develop a sort of sixth sense when it comes to danger .
I could steal genuine detour signs from some road department shed and set them up in all the right places ; I could even add fluorescent orange road cones and a few of those smudge-pots .
I could do all that and Dolan would still smell the nervous sweat of my hands on the stage dressing .
Right through his bullet-proof windows he would smell it .
He would close his eyes and hear Elizabeth , s name far back in the snake-pit that passed for his mind .
The voice that spoke for Elizabeth fell silent , and I thought it had finally given up for the day .
And then , with Vegas actually in sight blue and misty and wavering on the far rim of the desert it spoke up again .
Then don , t try to fool him with a fake detour , it whispered .
Fool him with a real one .
I swerved the Buick over to the shoulder and shuddered to a stop with both feet on the brake-pedal .
I stared into my own wide , startled eyes in the rear-view mirror .
Inside , the voice that spoke for Elizabeth began to laugh .
It was wild , mad laughter , but after a few moments I began to laugh along with it .
The other teachers laughed at me when I joined the Ninth Street Health Club .
One of them wanted to know if someone had kicked sand in my face .
I laughed along with them .
People don , t get suspicious of a man like me as long as he keeps laughing along with them .
And why shouldn , t I laugh ?
My wife had been dead seven years , hadn , t she ?
Why , she was no more than dust and hair and a few bones in her coffin !
So why shouldn , t I laugh ?
It , s only when a man like me stops laughing that people wonder if something is wrong .
I laughed along with them even though my muscles ached all that fall and winter .
I laughed even though I was constantly hungry no more second helpings , no more late-night snacks , no more beer , no more before-dinner gin and tonic .
But lots of red meat and greens , greens , greens .
I bought myself a Nautilus machine for Christmas .
No that , s not quite right .
Elizabeth bought me a Nautilus machine for Christmas .
I saw Dolan less frequently ; I was too busy working out , losing my pot belly , building up my arms and chest and legs .
But there were times when it seemed I could not go on with it , that recapturing anything like real physical fitness was going to be impossible , that I could not live without second helpings and pieces of coffee cake and the occasional dollop of sweet cream in my coffee .
When those times came I would park across from one of his favorite restaurants or perhaps go into one of the clubs he favored and wait for him to show up , stepping from the fog-gray Cadillac with an arrogant , icy blonde or a laughing redhead on his arm or one on each .
There he would be , the man who had killed my Elizabeth , there he would be , resplendent in a formal shirt from Bijan , s , his gold Rolex winking in the nightclub lights .
When I was tired and discouraged I went to Dolan as a man with a raging thirst might seek out an oasis in the desert .
I drank his poisoned water and was refreshed .
In February I began to run every day , and then the other teachers laughed at my bald head , which peeled and pinked and then peeled and pinked again , no matter how much sun-block I smeared on it .
I laughed right along with them , as if I had not twice nearly fainted and spent long , shuddering minutes with cramps stabbing the muscles of my legs at the end of my runs .
When summer came , I applied for a job with the Nevada Highway Department .
The municipal employment office stamped a tentative approval on my form and sent me along to a district foreman named Harvey Blocker .
Blocker was a tall man , burned almost black by the Nevada sun .
He wore jeans , dusty workboots , and a blue tee-shirt with cut-off sleeves .
BAD ATTITUDE , the shirt proclaimed .
His muscles were big rolling slabs under his skin .
He looked at my application .
Then he looked at me and laughed .
The application looked very puny rolled up in one of his huge fists .
`` You got to be kidding , my friend .
I mean , you have got to be .
We talkin desert sun and desert heat here none of that yuppie tanning-salon shit .
What are you in real life , bubba ?
An accountant ? ''
`` A teacher , '' I said .
`` Third grade . ''
I had a pocket watch handed down from my great-grandfather , who worked on the last stretch of the great transcontinental railroad .
He was there , according to family legend , when they hammered home the golden spike .
I took the watch out and dangled it in Blocker , s face on its chain .
`` See this ? ''
I said .
`` Worth six , maybe seven hundred dollars . ''
`` This a bribe ? ''
Blocker laughed again .
A great old laugher was he .
`` Man , I , ve heard of people making deals with the devil , but you , re the first one I ever met who wanted to bribe himself into hell . ''
Now he looked at me with something like compassion .
He left me all that , but do you think he left me any goddam insurance money ?
Nossir !
Although that might have been a blessin in disguise , the way things turned out .
I guess I 'll get to that part before I 'm done , but all I 'm trying to say now is that Joe St George really wa'ant a man at all ; he was a goddam millstone I wore around my neck .
Worse , really , because a millstone do n't get drunk and then come home smellin of beer and wantin to throw a fuck into you at one in the morning .
Was n't none of that the reason why I killed the sonofawhore , but I guess it 's as good a place as any to start .
An island 's not a good place to kill anybody , I can tell you that .
Seems like there 's always someone around , itching to get his nose into your business just when you can least afford it .
That 's why I did it when I did , and I 'll get to that , too .
For now suffice it to say that I did it just about three years after Vera Donovan 's husband died in a motor accident outside of Baltimore , which was where they lived when they was n't summerin on Little Tall .
Back in those days , most of Vera 's screws were still nice and tight .
With Joe out of the pitcher and no money coming in , I was in a fix , I can tell you - I got an idear there 's no one in the whole world feels as desperate as a woman on her own with kids dependin on her .
I 'd 'bout decided I 'd better cross the reach and see if I could n't get a job in Jonesport , checkin out groceries at the Shop n Save or waitressin in a restaurant , when that numb pussy all of a sudden decided she was gon na live on the island all year round .
Most everyone thought she 'd blown a fuse , but I was n't all that surprised - by then she was spendin a lot of time up here , anyway .
Well , I 'd done it summers for the family since 1950 , and I s'pose it was natural enough for her to call me before she called anyone else , but at the time it seemed like the answer to all my prayers .
I said yes right on the spot , and I worked for her right up until yest'y forenoon , when she went down the front stairs on her stupid empty head .
What was it her husband did , Andy ?
Made airplanes , did n't he ?
Oh .
Ayuh , I guess I did hear that , - but you know how people on the island talk .
All I know for sure is that they was well-fixed , mighty well-fixed , and she got it all when he died .
Except for what the government took , accourse , and I doubt if it got anywhere near as much as it was .
probably owed .
Michael Donovan was sharp as a tack .
Sly , too .
And although nobody would believe it from the way she was over the last ten years , Vera was as sly as he was ... and she had her sly days right up until she died .
I wonder if she knew what kind of a jam she 'd be leavin me in if she did anything besides die in bed of a nice quiet heart-attack ?
I been down by East Head most of the day , sittin on those rickety stairs and thinkin about that ... that and a few hundred other things .
First I 'd think no , a bowl of oatmeal has more brains than Vera Donovan had at the end , and then I 'd remember how she was about the vacuum cleaner and I 'd think maybe ... yes , maybe ...
But it do n't matter now .
The only thing that matters now is that I have flopped out of the frying pan and into the fire , and I 'd dearly love to drag myself clear before my ass gets burned any worse .
If I still can .
I started off as Vera Donovan 's housekeeper , and I ended up bein something they call a 'paid companion . '
It did n't take me too long to figure out the difference .
As Vera 's housekeeper , I had to eat shit eight hours a day , five days a week .
As her paid companion , I had to eat it around the clock .
She had her first stroke in the summer of 1968 , while she was watchin the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on her television .
That was just a little one , and she used to blame it on Hubert Humphrey .
'I finally looked at that happy asshole one too many times , ' she said , 'and I popped a god-dam blood-vessel .
I should have known it was gon na happen , and it could just as easily have been Nixon . '
She had a bigger one in 1975 , and that time she did n't have no politicians to blame it on .
Dr Freneau told her she better quit smokin and drinkin , but he could have saved his breath - no high-steppin kitty like Vera Kiss-My-Back-Cheeks Donovan was going to listen to a plain old country doctor like Chip Freneau .
'I 'll bury him , ' she used to say , 'and have a Scotch and soda sitting on his headstone . '
For awhile it seemed like maybe she would do just that - he kept scoldin her , and she kept sailin along like the Queen Mary .
Then , in 1981 , she had her first whopper , and the hunky got killed in a car-wreck over on the mainland the very next year .
That was when I moved in with her - October of 1982 .
Did I have to ?
I dunno , I guess not .
I had my Sociable Security , as old Hattie McLeod used to call it .
It was n't much , but the kids were long gone by then - Little Pete right off the face of the earth , poor little lost lamb - and I had managed to put a few dollars away , too .
Living on the island has always been cheap , and while it ai n't what it once was , it 's still a whale of a lot cheaper than livin on the mainland .
So I guess I did n't have to go live with Vera , no .
But by then her and me was used to each other .
It 's hard to explain to a man .
I 'spect Nancy there with her pads n pens n tape-recorder understands , but I do n't think she 's s'posed to talk .
We was used to each other in the way I s'pose two old bats can get used to hangin upside-down next to each other in the same cave , even though they 're a long way from what you 'd call the best of friends .
And it was n't really no big change .
Hanging my Sunday clothes in the closet next to my house-dresses was really the biggest part of it , because by the fall of '82 I was there all day every day and most nights as well .
The money was a little better , but not so good I 'd made the downpayment on my first Cadillac , if you know what I mean .
Ha !
I guess I did it mostly because there was n't nobody else .
Greenbush cut the checks ; I cleaned up her shit and listened to her rave on about the sheets and the dust bunnies and her goddam china pig .
And what of it ?
I do n't expect no medal for it , not even a Purple Heart .
I 've wiped up a lot of shit in my- time , listened to even more of it ( I was married to Joe St George for sixteen years , remember ) , and none of it ever gave me the rickets .
I guess in the end I stuck with her because she did n't have nobody else ; it was either me or the nursin home .
Her kids never came to see her , and that was one thing I felt sorry for her about .
I did n't expect them to pitch in , do n't get that idear , but I did n't see why they could n't mend their old quarrel , whatever it was , and come once in awhile to spend the day or maybe a weekend with her .
She was a miserable bitch , no doubt about it , but she was their Ma .
And by then she was old .
Accourse I know a lot more now than I did then , but -What ?
Yes , it 's true .
If I 'm lyin , I 'm dyin , as my grand-sons like to say .
You just call that fella Greenbush if you do n't believe me .
I expect when the news gets out - and it will , it always does there 'll be one of those soppy articles in the Bangor Daily News about how wonderful it all is .
Well , I got news for you it ai n't wonderful .
A friggin nightmare is what it is .
No matter what happens in here , folks are gon na say I brainwarshed her into doin what she done n then killed her .
I know it , Andy , n so do you .
There ai n't no power in heaven or on earth that can stop people from thinkin the worst when they want to .
Well , not one goddam word of it 's true .
I did n't force her to do nothing , and she sure did n't do what she did because she loved me , or even liked me .
I suppose she might have done it because she thought she owed me - in her own peculiar way she could have thought she owed me plenty , and t'would n't have been her way to say anything .
Could even be what she done was her way of thankin me .
not for changin her shitty diapers but for bein there on all the nights when the wires came out of the corners or the dust bunnies came out from under the bed .
You do n't understand that , I know , but you will .
Before you open that door and walk out of this room , I promise you 'll understand everything .
She had three ways of bein a bitch .
I 've known women who had more , but three 's good for a senile old lady mostly stuck in a wheelchair or in bed .
Three 's damn good for a woman like that .
The first way was when she was a bitch because she could n't help it .
You remember what I said about the clothespins , how you had to use six of em to hang the sheets , never just four ?
Well , that was just one example .
There were certain ways things had to be done if you worked for Mrs Kiss-My-Back-Cheeks Vera Donovan , and you did n't want to forget a single one of them .
She told you how things were going to go right up front , and I 'm here to tell you that 's how things went .
If you forgot something once , you got the rough side of her tongue .
If you forgot twice , you got docked on payday .
If you forgot three times , that was it - you were down the road , and no excuses listened to .
Jonesy raised the Garand , settled the buttplate into the hollow of his shoulder , and prepared to shoot himself a conversation-piece .
What saved McCarthy - at least temporarily - was Jonesy 's disenchantment with hunting .
What almost got McCarthy killed was a phenomenon George Kilroy , a friend of his father 's , had called 'eye-fever ' .
Eye-fever , Kilroy claimed , was a form of buck fever , and was probably the second most common cause of hunting accidents .
'First is drink , ' said George Kilroy ... and like Jonesy 's father , Kilroy knew a bit on that subject , as well .
'First is always drink . '
Kilroy said that victims of eye-fever were uniformly astounded to discover they had shot a fencepost , or a passing car , or the broad side of a barn , or their own hunting partner ( in many cases the partner was a spouse , a sib , or a child ) .
'But I saw it , ' they would protest , and most of them according to Kilroy , could pass a lie-detector test on the subject .
They had seen the deer or the bear or the wolf , or just the grouse flip-flapping through the high autumn grass .
They had seen it .
What happened , according to Kilroy , was that these hunters were afflicted by an anxiety to make the shot , to get it over with , one way or the other .
This anxiety became so strong that the brain persuaded the eye that it saw what was not yet visible , in order to end the tension .
This was eye-fever .
And although Jonesy was aware of no particular anxiety - his fingers had been perfectly steady as he screwed the red stopper back into the throat of the Thermos - he admitted later to himself that yes , he might have fallen prey to the malady .
For one moment he saw the buck clearly at the end of the tunnel made by the interlocking branches - as clearly as he had seen any of the previous sixteen deer ( six bucks , ten does ) he had brought down over the years at Hole in the Wall .
He saw its brown head , one eye so dark it was almost the black of jeweler 's velvet , even part of its rack .
Shoot now !
part of him cried - it was the Jonesy from the other side of the accident , the whole Jonesy .
That one had spoken more frequently in the last month or so , as he began to approach some mythical state which people who had never been hit by a car blithely referred to as 'total recovery ' , but he had never spoken as loudly as he did now .
This was a command , almost a shout .
And his finger did tighten on the trigger .
It never put on that last pound of pressure ( or perhaps it only would have taken another half , a paltry eight ounces ) , but it did tighten .
The voice that stopped him was that second Jonesy , the one who had awakened in Mass General , doped and disoriented and in pain , not sure of anything anymore except that someone wanted something to stop , someone could n't stand it - not without a shot , anyway - that someone wanted Marcy .
No , not yet - wait , watch , this new cautious Jonesy said , and that was the voice he listened to .
He froze in place , most of his weight thrown forward on his good left leg , rifle raised , barrel angled down that interlacing tunnel of light at a cool thirty-five degrees .
The first flakes of snow came skating down out of the white sky just then , and as they did , Jonesy saw a bright vertical line of orange below the deer 's head - it was as if the snow had somehow conjured it up .
For a moment perception simply gave up and what he was seeing over the barrel of his gun became only an unconnected jumble , like paints swirled all together on an artist 's palette .
There was no deer and no man , not even any woods , just a puzzling and untidy jumble of black , brown , and orange .
Then there was more orange , and in a shape that made sense : it was a hat , the kind with flaps you could fold down to cover your ears .
The out-of-staters bought them at L.L .
Bean 's for forty-four dollars , each with a little tag inside that said PROUDLY MADE IN THE USA BY UNION LABOR .
Or you could pick one up at Gosselin 's for seven bucks .
The tag in a Gosselin 's cap just said MADE IN BANGLADESH .
The hat brought everything into horrible oh-God focus : the brown he had mistaken for a buck 's head was the front of a man 's wool jacket , the black jeweler 's velvet of the buck 's eye was a button , and the antlers were only more branches - branches belonging to the very tree in which he was standing .
The man was unwise ( Jonesy could not quite bring himself to use the word crazy ) to be wearing a brown coat in the woods , but Jonesy was still at a loss to understand how he himself could have made a mistake of such potentially horrifying consequence .
Because the man was also wearing an orange cap , was n't he ?
And a bright orange flagman 's vest as well , over the admittedly unwise brown coat .
The man was - - was a pound of finger-pressure from death .
Maybe less .
It came home to him in a visceral way then , knocking him clean out of his own body .
For a terrible , brilliant moment he never forgot , he was neither Jonesy Number One , the confident pre-accident Jonesy , or Jonesy Number Two , the more tentative survivor who spent so much of his time in a tiresome state of physical discomfort and mental confusion .
For that moment he was some other Jonesy , an invisible presence looking at a gunman standing on a platform in a tree .
The gunman 's hair was short and already graying , his face lined around the mouth , beard - speckled on the cheeks , and haggard .
The gunman was on the verge of using his weapon .
Snow had begun to dance around his head and light on his untucked brown flannel shirt , and he was on the verge of shooting a man in an orange cap and vest of the very sort he would have been wearing himself if he had elected to go into the woods with the Beaver instead of up into this tree .
He fell back into himself with a thud , exactly as one fell back into one 's seat after taking a car over a bad bump at a high speed .
To his horror , he realized he was still tracking the man below with the Garand , as if some stubborn alligator deep in his brain refused to let go of the idea that the man in the brown coat was prey .
Worse , he could n't seem to make his finger relax on the rifle 's trigger .
There was even an awful second or two when he thought he was actually still squeezing , inexorably eating up those last few ounces between him and the greatest mistake of his life .
He later came to accept that that at least had been an illusion , something akin to the feeling you get of rolling backward in your stopped car when you glimpse a slowly moving car beside you , out of the corner of your eye .
No , he was just frozen , but that was bad enough , that was hell .
Jonesy , you think too much , Pete liked to say when he caught Jonesy staring out into the middle distance , no longer tracking the conversation , and what he probably meant was Jonesy , you imagine too much , and that was very likely true .
Scissors , perhaps .
Or a scalpel .
And the worst of it was that the man would not die , or at least not at once .
He would fall down and lie there screaming , as Jonesy had lain screaming in the street .
He could n't remember screaming , but of course he had ; he had been told this and had no reason to disbelieve it .
Screamed his fucking head off , most likely .
And what if the man in the brown coat and orange accessories started screaming for Marcy ?
Surely he would not - not really - but Jonesy 's mind might report screams of Marcy .
If there was eye-fever - if he could look at a man 's brown coat and see it as a deer 's head - then there was likely the auditory equivalent , as well .
To hear a man screaming and know you were the reason - dear God , no .
And still his finger would not loosen .
What broke his paralysis was both simple and unexpected : about ten paces from the base of Jonesy 's tree , the man in the brown coat fell down .
Jonesy heard the pained , surprised sound he made - mrof !
was what it sounded like - and his finger released the trigger without his even thinking about it .
The man was down on his hands and knees , his brown-gloved fingers ( brown gloves , another mistake , this guy almost could have gone out with a sign reading SHOOT ME taped to his back , Jonesy thought ) spread on the ground , which had already begun to whiten .
As the man got up again , he began to speak aloud in a fretful , wondering voice .
Jonesy did n't realize at first that he was also weeping .
'Oh dear , oh dear , ' the man said as he worked his way back to a standing position .
He swayed on his feet as if drunk .
Jonesy knew that men in the woods , men away from their families for a week or a weekend , got up to all sorts of small wickedness - drinking at ten in the morning was one of the most common .
But Jonesy did n't think this guy was drunk .
No reason ; just a vibe .
'Oh dear , oh dear , oh dear . '
And then , as he began to walk again : 'Snow .
Now it 's snow .
Please God , oh God , now it 's snow , oh dear . '
His first couple of steps were lurching and unsure .
Jonesy had about decided that his vibe was incorrect , the guy was loaded , and then the fellow 's gait smoothed out and he began to walk a little more evenly .
He was scratching at his right cheek .
He passed directly beneath the stand , for a moment he was n't a man at all but only a round circle of orange cap with brown shoulders to either side of it .
His voice drifted up , liquid and full of tears , mostly Oh dear with the occasional Oh God or Now it 's snow thrown in for salt .
Jonesy stood where he was , watching as the guy first disappeared directly beneath the stand , then came out on the other side .
He pivoted without being aware of it to keep the plodding man in view - nor was he aware that he had lowered his rifle to his side , even pausing long enough to put the safety back on .
Jonesy did n't call out , and he supposed he knew why : simple guilt .
He was afraid that the man down there would take one look at him and see the truth in Jonesy 's eyes - even through his tears and the thickening snow , the man would see that Jonesy had been up there with his gun pointed , that Jonesy had almost shot him .
Twenty paces beyond the tree , the man stopped and only stood there , his gloved right hand raised to his brow , shielding his eyes from the snow .
Jonesy realized he had seen Hole in the Wall .
Had probably realized he was on an actual path , too .
Oh dear and Oh God stopped , and the guy began to run toward the sound of the generator , rocking from side to side like a man on the deck of a ship .
Jonesy could hear the stranger 's short , sharp gasps for breath as he pounded toward the roomy cabin with the lazy curl of smoke rising from the chimney and fading almost at once into the snow .
Jonesy began to work his way down the rungs nailed to the trunk of the maple with his gun slung over his shoulder ( the thought that the man might present some sort of danger did not occur to him , not then ; he simply did n't want to leave the Garand , which was a fine gun , out in the snow ) .
His hip had stiffened , and by the time he got to the foot of the tree , the man he 'd almost shot had made it nearly all the way to the cabin door ... which was unlocked , of course .
No one locked up , not way out here .
5 About ten feet from the granite slab that served as Hole in the Wall 's front stoop , the man in the brown coat and orange hat fell down again .
His hat tumbled off , revealing a sweaty clump of thinning brown hair .
He stayed on one knee for a moment , head lowered .
Jonesy could hear his harsh , fast breathing .
That was Kamen .
It was Kamen who brought me Reba : one of the few things I took with me when I limped out of my other life and into the one I lived on Duma Key .
`` This is not approved psychological therapy for anger management , '' Dr. Kamen said , although I suppose he might have been lying about that to make Reba more attractive .
He told me I had to give her a hateful name , and so , although she looked like Lucy Ricardo , I named her after an aunt who used to pinch my fingers when I was small if I did n't eat all my carrots .
Then , less than two days after getting her , I forgot her name .
I could only think of boy names , each one making me angrier : Randall , Russell , Rudolph , River-fucking-Phoenix .
I was home by then .
Pam came in with my morning snack and must have seen the look on my face , because I could see her steeling herself for an outburst .
But even though I 'd forgotten the name of the fluffy red rage-doll the psychologist had given me , I remembered how I was supposed to use it in this situation .
`` Pam , '' I said , `` I need five minutes to get myself under control .
I can do this . ''
`` Are you sure- '' '' Yes , now just get that hamhock out of here and stick it up your face-powder .
I can do this . ''
I did n't know if I really could , but that was what I was supposed to say .
I could n't remember the fucking doll 's name , but I could remember I can do this .
That 's clear about the end of my other life , how I kept saying I can do this even when I knew I could n't , even when I knew I was fucked , I was double-fucked , I was dead-ass-fucked in the pouring rain .
`` I can do this , '' I said , and God knows how I looked because she backed out without a word , the tray still in her hands and the cup chattering against the plate .
When she was gone , I held the doll up in front of my face , staring into its stupid blue eyes as my thumbs disappeared into its stupid yielding body .
`` What 's your name , you bat-faced bitch ? ''
I shouted at it .
It never once occurred to me that Pam was listening on the kitchen intercom , she and the day-nurse both .
Tell you what , if the intercom had been broken they could have heard me through the door .
I was in good voice that day .
I began to shake the doll back and forth .
Its head flopped and its synthetic I Love Lucy hair flew .
Its big blue cartoon eyes seemed to be saying Oouuu , you nasty man !
like Betty Boop in one of those old cartoons you can still see sometimes on the cable .
`` What 's your name , bitch ?
What 's your name , you cunt ?
What 's your name , you cheap rag-filled whore ?
Tell me your name !
Tell me your name !
Tell me your name or I 'll cut out your eyes and chop off your nose and rip out your - '' My mind cross-connected then , a thing that still happens now , four years later , down here in the town of Tamazunchale , state of San Luis Potos , country of Mexico , site of Edgar Freemantle 's third life .
For a moment I was in my pickup truck , clipboard rattling against my old steel lunchbucket in the passenger footwell ( I doubt if I was the only working millionaire in America to carry a lunchbucket , but you probably could have counted us in the dozens ) , my PowerBook beside me on the seat .
And from the radio a woman 's voice cried `` It was RED ! ``
with evangelical fervor .
Only three words , but three was enough .
It was the song about the poor woman who turns out her pretty daughter as a prostitute .
It was `` Fancy , '' by Reba McEntire .
`` Reba , '' I whispered , and hugged the doll against me .
`` You 're Reba .
Reba-Reba-Reba .
I 'll never forget again . ''
I did - the following week - but I did n't get angry that time .
No .
I held her against me like a little love , closed my eyes , and visualized the pickup truck that had been demolished in the accident .
I visualized my steel lunchbucket rattling against the steel clip on my clipboard , and the woman 's voice came from the radio once more , exulting with that same evangelical fervor : `` It was RED ! ``
Dr. Kamen called it a breakthrough .
He was excited .
My wife seemed a good deal less excited , and the kiss she put on my cheek was of the dutiful variety .
I think it was two months later that she told me she wanted a divorce .
ii By then the pain had either lessened or my mind had made certain crucial adjustments when it came to dealing with it .
The headaches still came , but less often and rarely with the same violence ; it was no longer always midnight in the world 's biggest clock-shop between my ears .
I was always more than ready for Vicodin at five and Oxycontin at eight - could hardly hobble on my bright red Canadian crutch until I 'd swallowed those magic pills - but my rebuilt hip was starting to mend .
Kathi Green the Rehab Queen came to Casa Freemantle in Mendota Heights on Mondays , Wednesdays , and Fridays .
I was allowed an extra Vicodin before our sessions , and still my screams filled the house by the time we finished up .
Our basement rec room had been converted into a therapy suite , complete with a handicap-accessible hot tub .
After two months of torture , I was able to make it down there on my own in the evenings to double up on my leg exercises and begin some abdominal work .
Kathi said doing that stuff a couple of hours before bed would release endorphins and I 'd sleep better .
It was during one of these evening workouts - Edgar in search of those elusive endorphins - when my wife of a quarter-century came downstairs and told me she wanted a divorce .
I stopped what I was doing - crunches - and looked at her .
I was sitting on a floor-pad .
She was standing at the foot of the stairs , prudently across the room .
I could have asked her if she was serious , but the light down there was very good - those racked fluorescents - and I did n't have to .
I do n't think it 's the sort of thing women joke about six months after their husbands have almost died in accidents , anyway .
I could have asked her why , but I knew .
I could see the small white scar on her arm where I had stabbed her with the plastic knife from my hospital supper tray , and that was really the least of it .
I thought of telling her , not so long ago , to get that hamhock out of here and stick it up her face-powder .
I considered asking her to at least think about it , but the anger came back .
In those days what Dr. Kamen called inappropriate anger was my ugly friend .
And hey , what I was feeling right then did not seem inappropriate at all .
My shirt was off .
My right arm ended three and a half inches below the shoulder .
I twitched it at her - a twitch was the best I could do with the muscle that was left .
`` This is me , '' I said , `` giving you the finger .
Get out of here if that 's how you feel .
Get out , you quitting birch . ''
The first tears had started rolling down her face , but she tried to smile .
It was a pretty ghastly effort .
`` Bitch , Edgar , '' she said .
`` The word is bitch . ''
`` The word is what I say it is , '' I said , and began to do crunches again .
It 's harder than hell to do them with an arm gone ; your body wants to pull and corkscrew to that side .
`` I would n't have left you , that 's the point .
I would n't have left you .
I would have gone on through the mud and the blood and the piss and the spilled beer . ''
`` It 's different , '' she said .
She made no effort to wipe her face .
`` It 's different and you know it .
I could n't break you in two if I got into a rage . ''
`` I 'd have a hell of a job breaking you in two with only one amp , '' I said , doing crunches faster .
`` You stuck me with a knife . ''
As if that were the point .
It was n't , and we both knew it .
`` A plastic rudder knife is what it was , I was half out of my mind , and it 'll be your last words on your fucking beth-dead , 'Eddie staffed me with a plastic fife , goodbye cruel world . ' ''
`` You choked me , '' she said in a voice I could barely hear .
I stopped doing crunches and gaped at her .
The clock-shop started up in my head ; bang-a-gong , get it on .
`` What are you saying , I choked you ?
I never choked you ! ''
Taxi ! ''
he yelled , flagging madly with his free hand .
Behind him , the two man dropped all pretense and ran .
The taxi pulled over .
`` Hold it ! ''
one of the men yelled .
`` Police !
Police ! ''
A woman near the back of the crowd at the corner screamed , and then they all began to scatter .
Andy opened the cab 's back door and handed Charlie in .
He dived in after her .
`` La Guardia , step on it , '' he said .
`` Hold it , cabby .
Police ! ''
The cab driver turned his head toward the voice and Andy pushed-very gently .
A dagger of pain was planted squarely in the center of Andy 's forehead and then quickly withdrawn , leaving a vague locus of pain , like a morning headache-the kind you get from sleeping on your neck .
`` They 're after that black guy in the checkered cap , I think , '' he said to the cabby .
`` Right , '' the driver said , and pulled serenely away from the curb .
They moved down East Seventieth .
Andy looked back .
The two men were standing alone at the curb .
The rest of the pedestrians wanted nothing to do with them .
One of the men took a walkie-talkie from his belt and began to speak into it .
Then they were gone .
`` That black buy , '' the driver said , `` whadde do ?
Rob a liquor store or somethin , you think ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' Andy said , trying to think how to go on with this , how to get the most out of this cab driver for the least push .
Had they got the cab 's plate number ?
He would have to assume they had .
But they would n't want to go to the city or state cops , and they would be surprised and scrambling , for a while at least .
`` They 're all a bunch of junkies , the blacks in this city , '' the driver said .
`` Do n't tell me , I 'll tell you . ''
Charlie was going to sleep .
Andy took off his corduroy jacket , folded it , and slipped it under her head .
He had begun to feel a thin hope .
If he could play this right , it might work .
Lady Luck had sent him what Andy thought of ( with no prejudice at all ) as a pushover .
He was the sort that seemed the easiest to push , right down the line : he was white ( Orientals were the toughest , for some reason ) ; he was quite young ( old people were nearly impossible ) and of medium intelligence ( bright people were the easiest pushes , stupid ones harder , and with the mentally retarded it was impossible ) .
`` I 've changed my mind , '' Andy said .
`` Take us to Albany , please . ''
`` Where ? ''
The driver stared at him in the rearview mirror .
`` Man , I ca n't take a fare to Albany , you out of your mind ? ''
Andy pulled his wallet , which contained a single dollar bill .
He thanked God that this was not one of those cabs with a bulletproof partition and no way to contact the driver except through a money slot .
Open contact always made it easier to push .
He had been unable to figure out if that was a psychological thing or not , and right now it was immaterial .
`` I 'm going to give you a five-hundred-dollar bill , '' Andy said quietly , `` to take me and my daughter to Albany .
Okay ? ''
`` Jeee-sus , mister- '' Andy stuck the bill into the cabby 's hand , and as the cabby looked down at it , Andy pushed ... and pushed hard .
For a terrible second he was afraid it was n't going to work , that there was simply nothing left , that he had scraped the bottom of the barrel when he had made the driver see the non existent black man in the checkered cap .
Then the feeling came-as always accompanied by that steel dagger of pain .
At the same moment , his stomach seemed to take on weight and his bowels locked in sick , griping agony .
He put an unsteady hand to his face and wondered if he was going to throw up ... or die .
For that one moment he wanted to die , as he always did when he overused it-use it , do n't abuse it , the sign-off slogan of some long ago disc jockey echoing sickly in his mind whatever `` it '' was .
If at that very moment someone had slipped a gun into his hand- Then he looked sideways at Charlie , Charlie sleeping , Charlie trusting him to get them out of this mess as he had all the others , Charlie confident he would be there when she woke up .
Yes , all the messes , except it was all the same mess , the same fucking mess , and all they were doing was running again .
Black despair pressed behind his eyes .
The feeling passed ... but not the headache .
The headache would get worse and worse until it was a smashing weight , sending red pain through his head and neck with every pulsebeat .
Bright lights would make his eyes water helplessly and send darts of agony into the flesh just behind his eyes .
His sinuses would close and he would have to breathe through his mouth .
Drill bits in his temples .
Small noises magnified , ordinary noises as loud as jackhammers , loud noises insupportable .
The headache would worsen until it felt as if his head were being crushed inside an inquisitor 's lovecap .
Then it would even off at that level for six hours , or eight , or , maybe ten .
This time he did n't know .
He had never pushed it so far when he was so close to drained .
For whatever length of time he was in the grip of the headache , he would be next to helpless .
Charlie would have to take care of him .
God knew she had done it before ... but they had been lucky .
How many times could you be lucky ?
`` Gee , mister , I do n't know- '' Which meant he thought it was law trouble .
`` The deal only goes as long as you do n't mention it to my little girl , '' Andy said .
`` The last two weeks She 's been with me .
Has to be back with her mother tomorrow morning . ''
`` Visitation rights , '' the cabby said .
`` I know all about it . ''
`` You see , I was supposed to fly her up . ''
`` To Albany ?
Probably Ozark , am I right ? ''
`` Right .
Now , the thing is , I 'm scared to death of flying .
I know how crazy that sounds , but it 's true .
Usually I drive her back up , but this time my ex-wife started in on me , and ...
I do n't know . ''
In truth Andy did n't .
He had made up the story on the spur of the moment and now it seemed to be leaded straight down a blind alley .
Most of it was pure exhaustion .
`` So I drop you at the old Albany airport , and as far as Moms knows , you flew , right ? ''
`` Sure . ''
His head was thudding .
`` Also , as far as Moms knows , you 're no plucka-plucka-plucka , am I four-oh ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Plucka-plucka-plucka ?
What was that supposed to mean ?
The pain was getting bad .
`` Five hundred bucks to skip a plane ride , '' the driver mused .
`` It 's worth it to me , '' Andy said , and gave one last little shove .
In a very quiet voice , speaking almost into the cabby 's ear , he added , `` And it ought to be worth it to you . ''
`` I am sorry for your pain , but you 're not winning me over . ''
`` I need to know if your reputation is real , or just talk , like so many of the tall tales about you . ''
`` I 've earned my reputation , but if you really did your research on me then you also know that I do n't raise zombies for kicks , or thrill seekers , or tormented relatives unless they have a plan . ''
`` A plan .
What kind of plan ? ''
`` You tell me .
Why-do-you-want-your-wife-raised-as-a-zombie ? ''
`` I understood the question , Ms. Blake ; you do n't have to say it slowly . ''
`` Then answer the question , or this interview is over . ''
He glared at me , that anger darkening his eyes to a nice storm-cloud gray .
His hands made fists on the chair arms , and a muscle in his jaw flexed as he ground his teeth in frustration .
Iron self-control it was .
I stood up , smoothing my skirt down in back , out of habit .
I 'd been polite because I knew how much money he 'd paid just to talk to me , and since I was going to refuse I wanted him to feel he 'd gotten something for his money , but I 'd had enough .
`` I need you because there is n't much left of her body .
Most animators need a nearly intact body to do the job ; I do n't have an intact body to work with . ''
He would n't look at me as he said it , and there was a flinching around his mouth , a tension to those eyes he was hiding from me .
Here was the pain .
I sat back down and my voice was gentler .
`` How did she die ? ''
`` It was an explosion .
Our vacation home had a gas leak .
She 'd gone up ahead of me .
I was going to join her the next day , but that night ... '' His fists tightened , mottling the skin , and that muscle in his jaw bulged as if he were trying to bite through something hard and bitter .
`` I loved my wife , Ms .
Blake . ''
He sounded like the words choked him .
His dark gray eyes gleamed when he raised them back to me .
He held on to his unshed tears the way he held on to everything else : tightly .
`` I believe you , and I really am sorry for your loss , but I need to know what you think you 'll get out of raising her like this .
She will be a zombie .
Mine look very human , Mr. Bennington , very human , but they are n't .
I do n't want you to believe that I can raise her up and you can keep her with you , because you ca n't . ''
`` Why ca n't I ? ''
I made my voice soft as I told him the truth .
`` Because eventually she 'll start to rot , and you do n't want that to be your last visual of your wife . ''
`` I heard you raise zombies that do n't even know they 're dead . ''
`` Not at first , '' I said , `` but eventually the magic wears off , and it 's ... not pretty , Mr .
Bennington . ''
`` Please , '' he said , `` no one else can do this but you . ''
`` If I could raise her from the dead for real for you , maybe I would .
I wo n't debate the whole religious/philosophical problem with you , but the truth is that even I ca n't do what you want .
I raise zombies , Mr. Bennington , and that is not the same thing as resurrection of the dead .
I 'm good , maybe the best there is in the business , but I 'm not that good .
No one is . ''
A tear began to slide down each cheek , and I knew from my own hatred of crying that the tears were hot , and his throat hurt with holding it all in .
`` I do n't beg , Ms. Blake-ever-but I 'll beg you now .
I 'll double your fee .
I 'll do whatever it takes for you to do this for me . ''
That he was willing to double my fee meant he had as much money as he seemed to have ; a lot of people who wore designer suits and Rolex watches were wearing their money .
I stood again .
`` I am sorry , but I do n't have the ability to do what you want .
No one on this earth can bring your wife back from the dead in the way you want . ''
`` It 's too late for her to be a vampire , then ? ''
`` First , she 'd have to have been bitten before she died to have any chance of raising her as a vampire .
Second , you say she died in an explosion . ''
He nodded , his face ignoring the tears , except for the pain in his eyes and the hard line of his jaw .
`` Fire is one of the few things that destroy everything , even the preternatural . ''
`` One of the reasons I 'm here , Ms. Blake , is that most animators have trouble raising the dead when there 're just burned bits left .
I thought that was because of how little they had to work with , but is it because of the fire itself ? ''
It was a good question , an intelligent question , but I did n't have a good answer to give back to him .
`` I 'm honestly not sure .
I know that most animators need a nearly complete body to raise from the dead , but I 'm not sure I 've ever seen an article on whether death by fire impedes the process . ''
I stood up and walked around the desk to offer him my hand .
`` I am sorry that I ca n't help you , Mr. Bennington , but trust me that what I could do for you , you do n't really want . ''
He did n't stand up , just looked at me .
`` You 're the girlfriend of the Master Vampire of St. Louis .
Is n't he powerful enough to overcome all that and raise her as a vampire ? ''
I was a lot more than just Jean-Claude 's girlfriend .
I was his human servant , but we tried to keep that out of the media .
The police that I worked with as a U.S .
Marshal already mistrusted me because I was having sex with a vampire ; if they were certain of our mystical connection they 'd like it even less .
I lowered my hand and tried to explain .
`` I 'm sorry , truly , but the Master of the City is still bound by some of the same laws of metaphysics as all vampires .
Your wife would have to have been bitten several times before death , and the explosion would have destroyed her even if she had been a vampire . ''
I put my hand back out and hoped he 'd take it this time .
He stood up then , and shook my hand .
He held on to my hand and gave me serious eye contact .
`` You could raise her as a zombie that would n't know it was dead , and would n't look dead . ''
I did n't pull my hand back , but let him hold it , though I did n't like it .
I never liked being touched by strangers .
`` I could , but in a few days she 'd begin to deteriorate .
If her mind went first then she 'd just stop being your wife , but if the body began to rot before the mind went , then she 'd be trapped in a decaying body , and she 'd know it . ''
I put my hand over both of ours .
`` You do n't want that for her , or for yourself . ''
He let go of my hand then , and stepped back .
His eyes were lost rather than angry .
`` But a few days to say good-bye , a few days to be with her , might be worth it . ''
I almost asked if by `` be with her '' he meant sex , but I did not want to know .
I did n't need to know because I was n't raising this zombie .
There had been cases of other animators raising deceased spouses and having that happen , which is why most of us make the client understand that the zombie goes back in the grave the same night it comes out .
It avoided a whole host of problems if you just put the dead person back in its grave immediately .
Problems that made me have to fight off visuals I did not need in my head .
I 'd seen way too many zombies to think sex was ever a good idea with the shambling dead .
I walked him to the door , and he came , no longer arguing with me .
I was n't sure I 'd actually won the argument .
In fact , I would bet he 'd try to find someone else to raise his wife from the dead .
There were a couple of animators in the United States who could do it , but they would probably refuse on the same grounds I had .
The creep factor was entirely too high .
The door opened and he went through .
Stood there .
Listened .
Across the room , in front of the highway-side windows , Shirley Pasternak stood looking back at me with a Styrofoam cup of coffee in her hand .
Next to her was Phil Candleton , who had just clocked off and was once more dressed in his civvies ; he was also staring in my direction .
In the dispatch cubicle , the radio crackled .
'Statler , this is 12 , ' a voice said .
Radio distorts , but I still knew all of my men .
That was Eddie Jacubois .
'This is Statler , go ahead , ' Ned replied .
Perfectly calm .
If he was afraid of fucking up , he was keeping it out of his voice .
'Statler , I have a Volkswagen Jetta , tag is 14-0-7-3-9 Foxtrot , that 's P-A , stopped County Road 99 .
I need a 10-28 , come back ? '
Shirley started across the floor , moving fast .
A little coffee sloshed over the rim of the Styrofoam cup in her hand .
I took her by the elbow , stopping her .
Eddie Jacubois was out there on a county road , he 'd just stopped a Jetta for some violation ?
speeding was the logical assumption ?
and he wanted to know if there were any red flags on the plate or the plateholder .
He wanted to know because he was going to get out of his cruiser and approach the Jetta .
He wanted to know because he was going to put his ass out on the line , same today as every day .
Was the Jetta maybe stolen ?
Had it been involved in an accident at any time during the last six months ?
Had its owner been in court on charges of spousal abuse ?
Had he shot anyone ?
Robbed or raped anyone ?
Were there even outstanding parking tickets ?
Eddie had a right to know these things , if they were in the database .
But Eddie also had a right to know why it was a high school kid who had just told him This is Statler , go ahead .
I thought it was Eddie 's call .
If he came back with Where the hell is Shirley , I 'd let go of her arm .
And if Eddie rolled with it , I wanted to see what the kid would do .
How the kid would do .
'Unit 12 , hold for reply . '
If Ned was popping a sweat , it still did n't show in his voice .
He turned to the computer monitor and keyed in Uniscope , the search engine used by the Pennsylvania State Police .
He hit the keys rapidly but cleanly , then punched ENTER .
There followed a moment of silence in which Shirley and I stood side by side , saying nothing and hoping in perfect unison .
Hoping that the kid would n't freeze , hoping that he would n't suddenly push back the chair and bolt for the door , hoping most of all that he had sent the right code to the right place .
It seemed like a long moment .
I remember I heard a bird calling outside and , very distant , the drone of a plane .
There was time to think about those chains of event some people insist on calling coincidence .
One of those chains had broken when Ned 's father died on Route 32 ; here was another , just beginning to form .
Eddie Jacubois ?
never the sharpest knife in the drawer , I 'm afraid ?
was now joined to Ned Wilcox .
Beyond him , one link farther down the new chain , was a Volkswagen Jetta .
And whoever was driving it .
Then : '12 , this is Statler . '
'12 . '
'Jetta is registered to William Kirk Frady of Pittsburgh .
He is previous ... uh ... wait ... ' It was his only pause , and I could hear the hurried riffle of paper as he looked for the card Shirley had given him , the one with the call-codes on it .
He found it , looked at it , tossed it aside with an impatient little grunt .
Through all this , Eddie waited patiently in his cruiser twelve miles west .
He would be looking at Amish buggies , maybe , or a farmhouse with the curtain in one of the front windows pulled aslant , indicating that the Amish family living inside included a daughter of marriageable age , or over the hazy hills to Ohio .
Only he would n't really be seeing any of those things .
The only thing Eddie was seeing at that moment ?
seeing clearly ?
was the Jetta parked on the shoulder in front of him , the driver nothing but a silhouette behind the wheel .
And what was he , that driver ?
Rich man ?
Poor man ?
Beggarman ?
Thief ?
Finally Ned just said it , which was exactly the right choice .
'12 , Frady is DUI times three , do you copy ? '
Drunk man , that 's what the Jetta 's driver was .
Maybe not right now , but if he had been speeding , the likelihood was high .
'Copy , Statler . '
Perfectly laconic .
'Got a current laminate ? '
Wanting to know if Frady 's license to drive was currently valid .
'Ah ... ' Ned peered frantically at the white letters on the blue screen .
Right in front of you , kiddo , do n't you see it ?
I held my breath .
Then : 'Affirmative , 12 , he got it back three months ago . '
I let go of my breath .
Beside me , Shirley let go of hers .
This was good news for Eddie , too .
Frady was legal , and thus less likely to be crazy .
That was the rule of thumb , anyway .
: '12 on approach , ' Eddie sent .
'Copy that ? '
'Copy , 12 on approach , standing by , ' Ned replied .
I heard a click and then a large , unsteady sigh .
I nodded to Shirley , who got moving again .
Then I reached up and wiped my brow , not exactly surprised to find it was wet with sweat .
'How 's everything going ? '
Shirley asked .
Voice even and normal , saying that , as far as she was concerned , all was quiet on the western front .
'Eddie Jacubois called in , ' Ned told her .
'He 's 10-27 . '
That 's an operator check , in plain English .
If you 're a Trooper , you know that it also means citing the operator for some sort of violation , in nine cases out of ten .
Now Ned 's voice was n't quite steady , but so what ?
Now it was all right for it to jig and jag a little .
'He 's got a guy in a Jetta out on Highway 99 .
I handled it . '
'Tell me how , ' Shirley said .
'Go through your procedure .
She thought , Right .
And now I 'm looking at The Penis of anAttorney .
She had to bite the insides of her cheeks to keep from laughing .
Laughing at this point would be impolitic .
An idea came to her then , and it killed any urge she 'd had to laugh .
It was this : he did n't know she was serious because for him , Jessie Mahout Burlingame , wife of Gerald , sister of Maddy and Will , daughter of Tom and Sally , mother of no one , was really not here at all .
She had ceased to be here when the keys made their small , steely clicks in the locks of the handcuffs .
The men 's adventure magazines of Gerald 's teenage years had been replaced by a pile of skin magazines in the bottom drawer of his desk , magazines in which women wearing pearls and nothing else knelt on bearskin rugs while men with sexual equipment that made Gerald 's look strictly HO-scale by comparison took them from behind .
In the backs of these magazines , between the talk-dirty-to-me phone ads with their 900 numbers , were ads for inflatable women which were supposed to be anatomically correct-a bizarre concept if Jessie had ever encountered one .
She thought of those air-filled dollies now , their pink skins , lineless cartoon bodies , and featureless faces , with a kind of revelatory amazement .
It was n't horror-not quite-but an intense light flashed on inside her , and the landscape it disclosed was certainly more frightening than this stupid game , or the fact that this time they were playing it in the summer house by the lake long after summer had run away for another year .
But none of it had affected her hearing in the slightest .
Now it was a chainsaw she heard , snarling away in the woods at some considerable distance-as much as five miles , maybe .
Closer by , out on the main body of Kashwakamak Lake , a loon tardy in starting its annual run south lifted its crazed cry into the blue October air .
Closer still , somewhere here on the north shore , a dog barked .
It was an ugly , ratcheting sound , but Jessie found it oddly comforting .
It meant that someone else was up here , midweek in October or no .
Otherwise there was just the sound of the door , loose as an old tooth in a rotted gum , slapping at the swollen jamb .
She felt that if she had to listen to that for long , it would drive her crazy .
Gerald , now naked save for his spectacles , knelt on the bed and began crawling up toward her .
His eyes were still gleaming .
She had an idea it was that gleam which had kept her playing the game long after her initial curiosity had been satisfied .
It had been years since she 'd seen that much heat in Gerald 's gaze when he looked at her .
She was n't bad-looking-she 'd managed to keep the weight off , and still had most of her figure-but Gerald 's interest in her had waned just the same .
She had an idea that the booze was partly to blame for that-he drank a hell of a lot more now than when they 'd first been married-but she knew the booze was n't all of it .
What was the old saw about familiarity breeding contempt ?
That was n't supposed to hold true for men and women in love , at least according to the Romantic poets she 'd read in English Lit 101 , but in the years since college she had discovered there were certain facts of life about which John Keats and Percy Shelley had never written .
But of course , they had both died a lot younger than she and Gerald were now .
And all of that did n't matter much right here and right now .
What maybe did was that she had gone on with the game longer than she had really wanted to because she had liked that hot little gleam in Gerald 's eyes .
It made her feel young and pretty and desirable .
But ... ... but if you really thought it was you he was seeing when he gotthat look in his eye , you were misled , toots .
Or maybe you misled yourself.And maybe now you have to decide-really , really decide-if you intendto continue putting up with this humiliation .
Because is n't that prettymuch how you feel ?
Humiliated ?
She sighed .
Yes .
It pretty much was .
`` Gerald , I do mean it . ''
She spoke louder now , and for the first time the gleam in his eyes flickered a little .
Good .
He could hear her after all , it seemed .
So maybe things were still okay .
Not great , it had been a long time since things had been what you could call great , but okay .
Then the gleam reappeared , and a moment later the idiot grin followed .
`` I 'll teach you , me proud beauty , '' he said .
He actually said that , pronouncing beauty the way the landlord in a bad Victorian melodrama might say it .
Let him do it , then .
Just let him do it and it will be done .
This was a voice she was much more familiar with , and she intended to follow its advice .
She did n't know if Gloria Steinem would approve and did n't care ; the advice had the attractiveness of the completely practical .
Let him do it and it would be done .
QED .
Then his hand-his soft , short-fingered hand , its flesh as pink as that which capped his penis-reached out and grasped her breast , and something inside her suddenly popped like an overstrained tendon .
She bucked her hips and back sharply upward , flinging his hand off .
`` Quit it , Gerald .
Unlock these stupid handcuffs and let me up .
This stopped being fun around last March , while there was still snow on the ground .
I do n't feet sexy ; I feel ridiculous . ''
This time he heard her all the way down .
She could see it in the way the gleam in his eyes went out all at once , like candle flames in a strong gust of wind .
She guessed that the two words which had finally gotten through to him were stupid and ridiculous .
He had been a fat kid with thick glasses , a kid who had n't had a date until he was eighteen-the year after he went on a strict diet and began to work out in an effort to strangle the engirdling flab before it could strangle him .
His success as a corporate lawyer ( and marriage to her ; she believed that had also played a part , perhaps even the crucial one ) had further restored his confidence and self-respect , but she supposed that some nightmares never completely ended .
In a deep part of his mind , the bullies were still giving Gerald wedgies in study-hall , still laughing at Gerald 's inability to do anything but girlie-pushups in phys ed , and there were words-stupid and ridiculous , for instance-that brought all that back as if high school had been yesterday ... or so she suspected .
Psychologists could be incredibly stupid about many things , almost wilfully stupid , it often seemed to her , but about the horrible persistence of some memories she thought they were bang-on .
Some memories battened onto a person 's mind like evil leeches , and certain words stupid and ridiculous , for example-could bring them instantly back to squirming , feverish life .
She waited to feel a pang of shame at hitting below the belt like this and was pleased-or maybe it was relief she felt-when no pang came .
I guess maybe I 'm just tired of pretending , she thought , and this idea led to another : she might have her own sexual agenda , and if she did , this business with the handcuffs was definitely not on it .
They made her feel demeaned .
The whole idea made her feel demeaned .
Oh , a certain uneasy excitement had accompanied the first few experiments-the ones with the scarves-and on a couple of occasions she 'd had multiple orgasms , and that was a rarity for her .
All the same , there had been side-effects she did n't care for , and that feeling of being somehow demeaned was only one of them .
She 'd had her own nightmares following each of those early versions of Gerald 's game .
She awoke from them sweaty and gasping , her hands thrust deeply into the fork of her crotch and rolled into tight little balls .
She only remembered one of these dreams , and that memory was distant , blurred : she had been playing croquet without any clothes on , and all at once the sun had gone out .
Never mind all that , Jessie ; those are things you can consider anotherday .
Right now the only important thing is getting him to let you loose .
Yes .
Because this was n't their game ; this game was all his .
She had gone on playing it simply because Gerald wanted her to .
And that was no longer good enough .
The loon voiced its lonely cry out on the lake again .
Gerald 's dopey grin of anticipation had been replaced by a look of sulky displeasure .
You broke my toy , you bitch , that look said .
Jessie found herself remembering the last time she 'd gotten a good look at that expression .
`` You do n't have a Porsche body just now , '' she had said , knowing she was n't being very diplomatic but feeling that this really was n't the time for diplomacy .
Also , he had exasperated her to the point where she had n't cared a whole hell of a lot for his feelings .
This had been happening more and more frequently to her lately , and it dismayed her , but she did n't know what to do about it .
`` Just what is that supposed to mean ? ''
he had asked stiffly .
She did n't bother to answer ; she had learned that when Gerald asked such questions , they were almost always rhetorical .
The important message lay in the simple subtext : You 're upsetting me , Jessie .
You'renot playing the game .
But on that occasion-perhaps in an unknowing tune-up for this one-she had elected to ignore the subtext and answer the question .
`` It means that you 're still going to be forty-six this winter whether you own a Porsche or not , Gerald ... and you 're still going to be thirty pounds overweight . ''
Cruel , yes , but she could have been downright gratuitous ; could have passed on the image which had flashed before her eyes when she had looked at the photograph of the sports car on the front of the glossy brochure Gerald had handed her .
In that blink of an instant she had seen a chubby little kid with a pink face and a widow 's peak stuck in the innertube he 'd brought to the old swimming hole .
By the time they got to the little dirt parking area on Route 68 , her knuckles were white on the steering wheel and she was speaking in clipped tones which Trisha recognized all too well .
Mom was leaving Condition Yellow behind and going to Condition Red .
It was looking like a very long six-mile walk through the western Maine woods , all in all .
Could your family fighting all the time drive you crazy ?
Maybe when her mother started rubbing her temples with the tips of her fingers , it was n't because she had a headache but because she was trying to keep her brains from undergoing spontaneous combustion or explosive decompression , or something .
To escape them , Trisha opened the door to her favorite fantasy .
She took off her Red Sox cap and looked at the sig-nature written across the brim in broad black felt-tip strokes ; this helped get her in the mood .
It was Tom Gor-don 's signature .
Pete liked Mo Vaughn , and their Mom was partial to Nomar Garciaparra , but Tom Gordon was Trisha 's and her Dad 's favorite Red Sox player .
Tom Gordon was the Red Sox closer ; he came on in the eighth or ninth inning when the game was close but the Sox were still on top .
Only to Moanie Balogna and ( once ) to her girlfriend , Pepsi Robichaud , had she said more .
She told Pepsi she thought Tom Gordon was `` pretty good-looking . ''
To Mona she threw caution entirely to the winds , saying that Number 36 was the handsomest man alive , and if he ever touched her hand she 'd faint .
If he ever kissed her , even on the cheek , she thought she 'd probably die .
And there 's this guy standing at the hotdog wagon .
He 's wearing blue jeans and a white T-shirt and he 's got a gold chain around his neck - he 's got his back to me but I can see the chain winking in the sun .
I say , he says , then I say and then he says : thinking about how they might talk while the fighting in the front seat of the Caravan drew steadily farther away .
( Sometimes , Trisha had decided , silence was life 's greatest blessing . )
She was still looking fixedly at the signature on the visor of her base-ball cap when Mom turned into the parking area , still far away ( Trish is off in her own world was how her father put it ) , unaware that there were teeth hidden in the ordinary tex-ture of things and she would soon know it .
She was in San-ford , not in TR-90 .
She was in the town park , not at an entry-point to the Appalachian Trail .
She was with Tom Gordon , Number 36 , and he was offering to buy her a hot-dog in exhange for directions to North Berwick .
Oh , bliss .
First Inning MOM AND PETE gave it a rest as they got their packs and Quilla 's wicker plant-collection basket out of the van 's back end ; Pete even helped Trisha get her pack settled evenly on her back , tightening one of the straps , and she had a moment 's foolish hope that now things were going to be all right .
`` Kids got your ponchos ? ''
Mom asked , looking up at the sky .
There was still blue up there , but the clouds were thick-ening in the west .
It very likely would rain , but probably not soon enough for Pete to have a satisfying whine about being soaked .
`` I 've got mine , Mom ! ''
Trisha chirruped in her oh-boy-waterlesscookware voice .
Pete grunted something that might have been yes .
`` Lunches ? ''
Affirmative from Trisha ; another low grunt from Pete .
`` Good , because I 'm not sharing mine . ''
She locked the Caravan , then led them across the dirt lot toward a sign marked TRAIL WEST , with an arrow beneath .
There were maybe a dozen other cars in the lot , all but theirs with out-ofstate plates .
19 .
`` Bug-spray ? ''
Mom asked as they stepped onto the path leading to the trail .
`` Trish ? ''
`` Got it ! ''
she chirruped , not entirely positive she did but not wanting to stop with her back turned so that Mom could have a rummage .
That would get Pete going again for sure .
If they kept walking , though , he might see something which would interest him , or at least distract him .
A raccoon .
Maybe a deer .
A dinosaur would be good .
Trisha giggled .
`` What 's funny ? ''
Mom asked .
`` Just me thinks , '' Trisha replied , and Quilla frowned - `` me thinks '' was a Larry McFarland-ism .
Well let her frown , Trisha thought .
Let her frown all she wants .
I 'm with her , and I do n't complain about it like old grouchy there , but he 's still my Dad and I still love him .
Trisha touched the brim of her signed cap , as if to prove it .
`` Okay , kids , let 's go , '' Quilla said .
`` And keep your eyes open . ''
`` I hate this , '' Pete almost groaned - it was the first clearly articulated thing he 'd said since they got out of the van , and Trisha thought : Please God , send something .
A deer or a dinosaur or a UFO .
Because if You do n't , they 're going right back at it .
God sent nothing but a few mosquito scouts that would no doubt soon be reporting back to the main army that fresh meat was on the move , and by the time they passed a sign reading NO .
CONWAY STATION 5 .
5 MI. , the two of them were at it full-bore again , ignoring the woods , ignoring her , ignoring everything but each other .
Yatata-yatata-yatata .
It was , Trisha thought , like some sick kind of making out .
It was a shame , too , because they were missing stuff that was actually pretty neat .
The sweet , resiny smell of the pines , for instance , and the way the clouds seemed so close - less like clouds than like draggles of whitish-gray smoke .
She guessed you 'd have to be an adult to call some-thing as boring as walking one of your hobbies , but this really was n't bad .
She did n't know if the entire Appalachian Trail was as well-maintained as this - probably not - but if it was , she guessed she could understand why people with nothing better to do decided to walk all umpty-thousand miles of it .
Trisha thought it was like walking on a broad , winding avenue through the woods .
It was n't paved , of course , and it ran steadily uphill , but it was easy enough walking .
There was even a little hut with a pump inside it and a sign which read : WATER TESTS OK FOR DRINKING .
PLEASE FILL PRIMER JUG FOR NEXT PERSON .
She had a bottle of water in her pack - a big one with a squeeze-top - but suddenly all Trisha wanted in the world was to prime the pump in the little hut and get a drink , cold and fresh , from its rusty lip .
She would drink and pretend she was Bilbo Baggins , on his way to the Misty Mountains .
`` Mom ? ''
she asked from behind them .
`` Could we stop long enough to - `` '' Making friends is a job , Peter , '' her mother was saying .
She did n't look back at Trisha .
`` You ca n't just stand around and wait for kids to come to you . ''
`` Mom ?
Pete ?
Could we please stop for just a - `` '' You do n't understand , '' he said heatedly .
`` You do n't have a clue .
I do n't know how things were when you were in junior high , but they 're a lot different now . ''
`` Pete ?
Mom ?
Mommy ?
There 's a pump - `` Actually there was a pump ; that was now the grammatically correct way to put it , because the pump was behind them , and get-ting farther behind all the time .
`` I do n't accept that , '' Mom said briskly , all business , and Trisha thought : No wonder she drives him crazy .
Then , resent-fully : They do n't even know I 'm here .
The Invisible Girl , that 's me .
I might as well have stayed home .
A mosquito whined in her ear and she slapped at it irritably .
They came to a fork in the trail .
The main branch - not quite as wide as an avenue now , but still not bad - went off to the left , marked by a sign reading NO .
Henrietta was always on the phone , and if it was in the afternoon you could always hear the soap opera stories going on in the background .
Buddy and George laughed wildly , and Mom put a hand to her mouth and said Do n't you EVER tell anyone I said that , and then she began to laugh too , all three of them sitting at the supper tablelaughing , and at last the racket had awakened Gramma , who slept more and more , and she began to cry Ruth !
Ruth !
ROO-OOOTH !
in that high , querulous voice of hers , and Mom had stopped laughing and went into her room .
Today Henrietta Dodd could talk all she wanted , as far as George was concerned .
He just wanted to make sure the phone was working .
Two weeks ago there had been a bad storm , and since then it went out sometimes .
He found himself looking at the cheery cartoon Gramma again , and wondered what it would be like to have a Gramma like that .
His Gramma was huge and fat and blind ; the hypertension had made her senile as well .
Sometimes , when She had her `` bad spells , '' she would ( as Mom put it ) `` act out the Tartar , '' calling for people who were n't there , holding conversations with total emptiness , mumbling strange words that made no sense .
On one occasion when she was doing this last , Mom had turned white and had gone in and told her to shut up , shut up , shut up !
Desecrated was the word Mr. Burdon , the principal , had used the next day when he convened all eight grades for Assembly and lectured the whole school on Malicious Mischief and how some things Just Were n't Funny .
Going home that night , George had asked Buddy what desecrated meant , and Buddy said it meant digging up graves and pissing on the coffins , but George did n't believe that ... unless it was late .
And dark .
Gramma was noisy when she had her `` bad spells , '' but mostly she just lay in the bed she had taken to three years before , a fat slug wearing rubber pants and diapers under her flannel nightgown , her face runneled with cracks and wrinkles , her eyes empty and blind -- faded blue irises floating atop yellowed corneas .
At first Gramma had n't been totally blind .
But she had been going blind , and she had to have a person at each elbow to help her totter from her white vinyl egg-and-baby-powder-smelling chair to her bed or the bathroom .
In those days , five years ago , Gramma had weighed well over two hundred pounds .
She had held out her arms and Buddy , then eight , had gone to her .
George had hung back .
And cried .
But I 'm not scared now , he told himself , moving across the kitchen , in his Keds .
Not a bit .
She 's just an old lady who has `` bad spells '' sometimes .
He filled the teakettle with water and put it on a cold burner .
He got a teacup and put one of Gramma 's special herb tea bags into it .
In case she should wake up and want a cup .
He hoped like mad that she would n't , because then he would have to crank up the hospital bed and sit next to her and give her the tea a sip at a time , watching the toothless mouth fold itself over the rim of the cup , and listen to the slurping sounds as she took the tea into her dank , dying guts .
Sometimes she slipped sideways on the bed and you had to pull her back over and her flesh was soft , kind ofjiggly , as if it was filled with hot water , and her blind eyes would look at you ... George licked his lips and walked toward the kitchen table again .
His last cookie and half a glass of Quik still stood there , but he did n't want them anymore .
He looked at his schoolbooks , covered with Castle Rock Cougars bookcovers , without enthusiasm .
He ought to go in and check on her .
He did n't want to .
He swallowed and his throat still felt as if it was lined with mitten wool .
I 'm not afraid of Gramma , he thought .
If she held out her arms I 'd go right to her and let her hug me because she 's just an old lady .
She 's senile and that 's why she has `` bad spells . ''
That 's all .
Let her hug me and not cry .
Just like Buddy .
He crossed the short entryway to Gramma 's room , face set as if for bad medicine , lips pressed together so tightly they were white .
He looked in , and there lay Gramma , her yellow-white hair spread around her in a corona , sleeping , her toothless mouth hung open , chest rising under the coverlet so slowly you almost could n't see it , so slowly that you had to look at her for a while just to make sure she was n't dead .
Oh God , what if she dies on me while Mom 's up to the hospital ?
Yeah , but what if she does ?
She wo n't , so stop being a pussy .
One of Gramma 's yellow , melted-looking hands moved slowly on the coverlet : her long nails dragged across the sheet and made a minute scratching sound .
George drew back quickly , his heart pounding .
Cool as a moose , numbhead , see ?
Laying chilly .
He went back into the kitchen to see if his mother had been gone only an hour , or perhaps an hour and a half -- if the latter , he could start reasonably waiting for her to come back .
He looked at the clock and was astounded to see that not even twenty minutes had passed .
Mom would n't even be into the city yet , let alone on her way back out of it !
He stood still , listening to the silence .
Faintly , he could hear the hum of the refrigerator and the electric clock .
The snuffle of the afternoon breeze around the corners of the little house .
And then -- at the very edge of audibility -- the faint , rasping susurrus of skin over cloth ... Gramma 's wrinkled , tallowy hand moving on the coverlet .
He prayed in a single gust of mental breath : PleaseGoddon ' tletherwakeupuntilMomcomeshomeforJesus ' -sakeAmen .
He sat down and finished his cookie , drank his Quik .
He thought of turning on the TV and watching something , but he was afraid the sound would wake up Gramma and that high , querulous , not-to-be-denied voice would begin calling Roo-OOTH !
RUTH !
BRING ME M'TEA !
TEA !
ROOO-OOOOOTH !
He slicked his dry tongue over his drier lips and told himself not to be such a pussy .
She was an old lady stuck in bed , it was n't as if she could get up and hurt him , and she was eighty-three years old , she was n't going to die this afternoon .
George walked over and picked up the phone again. ''
-- that same day !
And she even knew he was married !
Gorry , I hate these cheap little corner-walkers that think they 're so smart !
So at Grange I said -- `` George guessed that Henrietta was on the phone with Cora Simard .
-- that if I ever saw her up that way again , I guess I could be a good citizen and call -- `` He put the phone back in its cradle .
He and Buddy made fun of Cora when they went past her house just like all the other kids -- she was fat and sloppy and gossipy and they would chant , Cora-Cora from Bora-Bora , ate a dog turd and wanted more-a !
and Mom would have killed them both if she had known that , but now George was glad she and Henrietta Dodd were on the phone .
They could talk all afternoon , for all George cared .
He did n't mind Cora , anyway .
Once he had fallen down in front of her house and scraped his knee -- Buddy had been chasing him -- and Cora had put a Band-Aid on the scrape and gave them each a cookie , talking all the time .
George had felt ashamed for all the times he had said the rhyme about the dog turd and the rest of it .
George crossed to the sideboard and took down his reading book .
He held it for a moment , then put it back .
He had read all the stories in it already , although school had only been going a month .
He read better than Buddy , although Buddy was better at sports .
Wo n't be better for a while , he thought with momentary good cheer , not with a broken leg .
He took down his history book , sat down at the kitchen table , and began to read about how Cornwallis had surrendered up his sword at Yorktown .
His thoughts would n't stay on it .
He got up , went through the entryway again .
The yellow hand was still .
Gramma slept , her face a gray , sagging circle against the pillow , a dying sun surrounded by the wild yellowish-white corona of her hair .
To George she did n't look anything like people who were old and getting ready to die were supposed to look .
She did n't look peaceful , like a sunset .
She looked crazy , and ... ( and dangerous ) ... yes , okay , and dangerous -- like an ancient she-bear that might have one more good swipe left in her claws .
George remembered well enough how they had come to Castle Rock to take care of Gramma when Granpa died .
Untilthen Mom had been working in the Stratford Laundry in Stratford , Connecticut .
Granpa was three or four years younger than Gramma , a carpenter by trade , and he had worked right up until the day of his death .
It had been a heart attack .
Even then Gramma had been getting senile , having her `` bad spells . ''
She had always been a trial to her family , Gramma had .
His hair flopped and flew in the wind that now came directly from the desert , with nothing to break it The gunslinger came down the hill slowly , leading the donkey on which his waterskins sloshed .
He paused by the edge of the lifeless-looking cornpatch , drew a drink from one of his skins to start the saliva , and spatinto the arid soil .
`` Life for your crop . ''
`` Life for your own , '' the dweller answered and stood up .
His back popped audibly .
He surveyed the gunslinger without fear .
The little of his face visible between beard and hair seemed unmarked by the rot , and his eyes , while a bit wild , seemed sane .
`` I do n't have anything but corn and beans , '' he said .
`` Corn 's free , but you 'll have to kick something in for the beans .
A man brings them out once in a while .
He do n't stay long . ''
The dweller laughed shortly .
`` Afraid of spirits . ''
`` I expect he thinks you 're one . ''
`` I expect he does . ''
They looked at each other in silence for a moment .
The dweller put out his hand .
`` Brown is my name . ''
The gunslinger shook his hand .
As he did so , a scrawny raven croaked from the low peak of the sod roof .
The dwell er gestured at it briefly : '' That 's Zoltan . ''
At the sound of its name the raven croaked again and flew across to Brown .
It landed on the dweller 's head and roosted , talons firmly twined in the wild thatch of hair .
`` Screw you , '' Zoltan croaked brightly .
`` Screw you and the horse you rode in on . ''
The gunslinger nodded amiably .
`` Beans , beans , the musical fruit , '' the raven recited , inspired .
`` The more you eat , the more you toot '' '' You teach him that ? ''
`` That 's all he wants to learn , I guess , '' Brown said .
`` Tried to teach him The Lord 's Prayer once . ''
His eyes traveled out beyond the hut for a moment , toward the gritty , featureless hardpan .
`` Guess this ai n't Lord 's Prayer country .
You 're a gunslinger .
That right ? ''
`` Yes . ''
He hunkered down and brought out his makings .
Zoltan launched himself from Brown 's head and landed , flittering , on the gunslinger 's shoulder .
`` After the other one , I guess . ''
`` Yes . ''
The inevitable question formed in his mouth : '' How long since he passed by ? ''
Brown shrugged .
`` I do n't know .
Time 's funny out here .
More than two weeks .
Less than two months .
The bean man 's been twice since he passed .
I 'd guess six weeks .
That 's probably wrong . ''
`` The more you eat , the more you toot , '' Zoltan said .
`` Did he stop off ? ''
the gunslinger asked .
Brown nodded .
`` He stayed supper , same as you will , I guess .
We passed the time . ''
The gunslinger stood up and the bird flew back to the roof , squawking .
He felt an odd , trembling eagerness .
`` What did he talk about ? ''
Brown cocked an eyebrow at him .
`` Not much .
Did it ever rain and when did I come here and had I buried my wife .
I did most of the talking , which ai n't usual . ''
He paused .
and the only sound was the stark wind .
`` He 's a sorcerer , ai n't he ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Brown nodded slowly .
`` I knew .
Are you ? ''
`` I 'm just a man . ''
`` You 'll never catch him . ''
`` I 'll catch him . ''
They looked at each other , a sudden depth of feeling between them , the dweller upon his dust-puff-dry ground , the gunslinger on the hardpan that shelved down to the desert .
He reached for his flint .
`` Here . ''
Brown produced a sulfur-headed match and struck it with a grimed nail .
The gunslinger pushed the tip of his smoke into the flame and drew .
`` Thanks . ''
`` You 'll want to fill your skins , '' the dweller said , turning away .
`` Spring 's under the eaves in back .
I 'll start dinner . ''
The gunslinger stepped gingerly over the rows of corn and went around back .
The spring was at the bottom of a hand-dug well , lined with stones to keep the powdery earth from caving .
As he descended the rickety ladder , the gunslinger reflected that the stones must represent two years ' work easily C hauling , dragging , laying .
The water was clear but slow-moving , and filling the skins was a long chore .
While he was topping the second , Zoltan perched on the lip of the well .
`` Screw you and the horse you rode in on , '' he advised .
He looked up , startled .
The shaft was about fifteen feet deep : easy enough for Brown to drop a rock on him , break his head , and steal everything on him .
A crazy or a rotter would n't do it ; Brown was neither .
Yet he liked Brown , and so he pushed the thought out of his mind and got the rest of his water .
What came , came .
When he came through the hut 's door and walked down the steps ( the hovel proper was set below ground level , de signed to catch and hold the coolness of the nights ) , Brown was poking ears of corn into the embers of a tiny fire with a hardwood spatula .
Two ragged plates had been set at op posite ends of a dun blanket .
Water for the beans was just beginning to bubble in a pot hung over the fire .
`` I 'll pay for the water , too . ''
Brown did not look up .
`` The water 's a gift from God .
Pappa Doc brings the beans . ''
The gunslinger grunted a laugh and sat down with his back against one rude wall , folded his arms and closed his eyes .
After a little , the smell of roasting corn came to his nose .
'Cut two ! '
Waterman yells .
He is a small , compact man in khaki shorts and a Joe Coach crewcut .
In real life he is a teacher and a college basketball coach , but this summer he is trying to teach these boys that baseball has more in common with chess than many would ever have believed .
Know your play , he tells them over and over again .
Know who it is you 're backing up .
Most important of all , know who your cut man is in every situation , and be able to hit him .
He works patiently at showing them the truth that hides at the center of the game : that it is played more in the mind than with the body .
Ryan Larrobino , Bangor West 's center fielder , fires a bullet to Casey Kinney at second base .
Casey tags an invisible runner , pivots , and throws another bullet to home , where J. J .
Fiddler takes the throw and tosses the ball back to Waterman .
'Double-play ball ! '
Waterman shouts , and hits one to Matt Kinney ( not related to Casey ) .
Matt is playing shortstop at practice today .
The ball takes a funny hop and appears to be on its way to left center .
Matt knocks it down , picks it up , and feeds to Casey at second ; Casey pivots and throws to Mike Arnold , who is on first .
Mike feeds it home to J.J. 'All right ! '
Waterman shouts .
'Good job , Matt Kinney !
Good job !
One-two-one !
You 're covering , Mike Pelkey ! '
The two names .
Always the two names , to avoid confusion .
The team is lousy with Matts , Mikes , and guys named Kinney .
The throws are executed flawlessly .
Mike Pelkey , Bangor West 's number two pitcher , is right where he 's supposed to be , covering first .
It 's a move he does n't always remember to make , but this time he does .
He grins and trots back to the mound as Neil Waterman gets ready to hit the next combination .
'This is the best Little League All-Star team I 've seen in years , ' Dave Mansfield says some days after Bangor West 's trouncing of Millinocket .
He dumps a load of sunflower seeds into his mouth and begins to chew them .
He spits hulls casually as he talks .
'I do n't think they can be beaten C at least not in this division . '
He pauses and watches as Mike Arnold breaks toward the plate from first , grabs a practice bunt , and whirls toward the bag .
He cocks his arm back C then holds the ball .
Mike Pelkey is still on the mound ; this time he has forgotten that it is his job to cover , and the bag is undefended .
He flashes Dave a quick guilty glance .
Then he breaks into a sunny grin and gets ready to do it again .
Next time he 'll do it right , but will he remember to do it right during a game ?
'Of course , we can beat ourselves , ' Dave says .
'That 's how it usually happens . '
And , raising his voice , he bellows , 'Where were you , Mike Pelkey ?
You 're s'posed to be covering first ! '
Mike nods and trots over C better late than never .
'Brewer , ' Dave says , and shakes his head .
'Brewer at their field .
That 'll be tough .
Brewer 's always tough . '
Bangor West does not trounce Brewer , but they win their first 'road game ' without any real strain .
Matt Kinney , the team 's number one pitcher , is in good form .
He is far from overpowering , but his fastball has a sneaky , snaky little hop , and he also has a modest but effective breaking pitch .
Ron St. Pierre is fond of saying that every Little League pitcher in America thinks he 's got a killer curveball .
'What they think is a curve is usually this big lollipop change , ' he says .
'A batter with a little self-discipline can kill the poor thing . '
Matt Kinney 's curveball actually curves , however , and tonight he goes the distance and strikes out eight .
Probably more important , he walks only four .
Walks are the bane of a Little League coach 's existence .
'They kill you , ' Neil Waterman says .
'The walks kill you every time .
Absolutely no exceptions .
Sixty per cent of batters walked score in Little League games . '
Not in this game : two of the batters Kinney walks are forced at second ; the other two are stranded .
Only one Brewer batter gets a hit : Denise Hewes , the center fielder , singles with one out in the fifth , but she is forced at second .
After the game is safely in the bag , Matt Kinney , a solemn and almost eerily self-possessed boy , flashes Dave a rare smile , revealing a set of neat braces .
'She could hit ! '
he says , almost reverently .
'Wait until you see Hampden , ' Dave says dryly .
'They all hit . '
When the Hampden squad shows up at Bangor West 's field , behind the Coke plant , on July 17th , they quickly prove Dave right .
Mike Pelkey has pretty good stuff and better control than he had against Millinocket , but he is n't much of a mystery to the Hampden boys .
Mike Tardif , a compact kid with an amazingly fast bat , rips Pelkey 's third pitch over the left-field fence , two hundred feet away , for a home run in the first inning .
Hampden adds two more runs in the second , and leads Bangor West 3-0 .
In the third , however , Bangor West breaks loose .
Hampden 's pitching is good , Hampden 's hitting is awesome , but Hampden 's fielding , particularly infielding , leaves something to be desired .
Bangor West puts three hits together with five errors and two walks to score seven runs .
This is how Little League is most often played , and seven runs should be enough , but they are n't ; the opposition chips stubbornly away , getting two in its half of the third and two more in the fifth .
When Hampden comes up in the bottom of the sixth , it is trailing only by three , 10-7 .
Kyle King , a twelve-year-old who started for Hampden this evening and then went to catcher in the fifth , leads off the bottom of the sixth with a double .
Then Mike Pelkey strikes out Mike Tardif .
Mike Wentworth , the new Hampden pitcher , singles to deep short .
King and Wentworth advance on a passed ball , but are forced to hold when Jeff Carson grounds back to the pitcher .
This brings up Josh Jamieson , one of five Hampden home-run threats , with two on and two out .
He represents the tying run .
Mike , although clearly tired , finds a little extra and strikes him out on a one-two pitch .
The game is over .
The kids line up and give each other the custom-ordained high fives , but it 's clear that Mike is n't the only kid who is simply exhausted after the match ; with their slumped shoulders and lowered heads , they all look like losers .
Bangor West is now 3-0 in divisional play , but the win is a fluke , the kind of game that makes Little League such a nerve-racking experience for spectators , coaches , and the players themselves .
Usually sure-handed in the field , Bangor West has tonight committed something like nine errors .
'I did n't sleep all night , ' Dave mutters at practice the next day .
'Damn , we were outplayed .
We should have lost that game . '
Two nights later , he has something else to feel gloomy about .
He and Ron St. Pierre make the six-mile trip to Hampden to watch Kyle King and his mates play Brewer .
This is no scouting expedition ; Bangor has played both clubs , and both men have copious notes .
What they are really hoping to see , Dave admits , is Brewer getting lucky and putting Hampden out of the way .
It does n't happen ; what they see is n't a baseball game but gunnery practice .
Josh Jamieson , who struck out in the clutch against Mike Pelkey , clouts a home run over everything and into the Hampden practice field .
Nor is Jamieson alone .
Carson hits one , Wentworth hits one , and Tardif hits a pair .
The final score is Hampden 21 , Brewer 9 .
`` Take it or leave it ! ''
the old man snapped , sudden , naked rage in his expression .
Barrett knew he had to accede or lose the opportunity - and there was a chance if he could get his machine constructed in time .
He nodded once .
`` A week , '' he said .
3:50 P.M .
Anything else ? ''
asked Hanley .
Barrett reviewed the items in his mind again .
A list of all phenomena observed in the Belasco house .
Restoration of its electrical system .
Installation of telephone service .
The swimming pool and steam room made available to him .
Barrett had ignored the small man 's frown at the fourth item .
A daily swim and steam bath were mandatory for him .
`` One more item , '' he said .
He tried to sound casual but felt that his excitement showed .
`` I need a machine .
I have the blueprints for it at my apartment . ''
`` How soon will you need it ? ''
Hanley asked .
`` As soon as possible . ''
`` Is it large ? ''
Twelve years , Barrett thought .
`` Quite large , '' he said .
`` That 's it ? ''
`` All I can think of at the moment .
I have n't mentioned living facilities , of course . ''
`` Enough rooms have been renovated for your use .
A couple from Caribou Falls will prepare and deliver your meals . ''
Hanley seemed about to smile .
`` They 've refused to sleep in the house . ''
Barrett stood .
`` It 's just as well .
They 'd only be in the way . ''
Hanley walked him toward the library door .
Before they reached it , it was opened sharply by a stout man , who glared at Barrett .
Although he was forty years younger and a hundred pounds heavier , William Reinhardt Deutsch bore an unmistakable resemblance to his father .
He shut the door .
`` I 'm warning you right now , '' he said , `` I 'm going to block this thing . ''
Barrett stared at him .
`` The truth , '' Deutsch said .
`` This is a waste of time , is n't it ?
Put it in writing , and I 'll make you out a check for a thousand dollars right now . ''
Barrett tightened .
`` I 'm afraid - `` '' There 's no such thing as the supernatural , is there ? ''
Deutsch 's neck was reddening .
`` Correct , '' said Barrett .
Deutsch began to smile in triumph .
`` The word is ' supernormal . '
Nature can not be transcen - `` '' What the hell 's the difference ? ''
interrupted Deutsch .
`` It 's superstition , all of it ! ''
`` I 'm sorry , but it is n't . ''
Barrett started past him .
`` Now , if you 'll excuse me . ''
Deutsch caught his arm .
`` Now , look , you better drop this thing .
I 'll see you never get that money - `` Barrett pulled his arm free .
`` Do what you will , '' he said .
`` I 'll proceed until I hear otherwise from your father . ''
He closed the door and started down the corridor .
In light of present knowledge , his mind addressed Deutsch , anyone who chooses to refer to psychic phenomena as superstition simply is n't aware of what 's going on in the world .
The documentation is immense - Barrett stopped and leaned against the wall .
His leg was starting to ache again .
For the first time , he allowed himself to recognize what a strain on his condition it might be to spend a week in the Belasco house .
What if it was really as bad as the two accounts claimed it was ?
4:37 P.M .
The Rolls-Royce sped along the hi ghway toward Manhattan .
`` That 's an awful lot of money . ''
Edith still sounded incredulous .
`` Not to him , '' said Barrett .
`` Especially when you consider that what he 's paying for is an assurance of immortality . ''
`` But he must know that you do n't believe - `` '' I 'm sure he does , '' Barrett interrupted .
He did n't want to consider the possibility that Deutsch had n't been told .
`` He 's not the sort of man who goes into anything without being totally informed . ''
`` But a hundred thousand dollars . ''
Barrett smiled .
`` I can scarcely believe it myself , '' he said .
`` If I were like my mother , I 'd undoubtedly consider this a miracle from God .
The two things I 've failed to accomplish both supplied at once - an opportunity to prove my theory , and provision for our later years .
Really , I could ask no more . ''
`` Thank you , my dear . ''
He patted her hand .
`` Monday afternoon , though . ''
Edith looked concerned .
`` That does n't give us too much time . ''
Barrett said , `` I 'm wondering if I should n't go alone on this one . ''
She stared at him .
`` Well , not alone , of course , '' he said .
`` There are the two others . ''
`` What about your meals ? ''
`` They 'll be provided .
All I 'll have to do is work . ''
`` I 've always helped you , though , '' she said .
`` I know .
It 's just that - `` '' What ? ''
He hesitated .
`` I 'd rather you were n't along this time , that 's all . ''
`` Why , Lionel ? ''
The Harlequin were the vampire equivalent of police , spies , judge , jury , and executioner .
They were also some of the greatest warriors to ever live , or unlive .
Some of them were vampires and some of them were wereanimals , which was how they were slicing apart the bodies of the weretigers they were killing across the country .
The body at our feet looked like a human man .
Before he died he 'd been able to shift to a big-ass tiger , but it had n't helped him against the Harlequin , just as it had n't helped any of the others .
If two people were equally fast , equally strong , but one was better trained at fighting , the better trained one would win .
So far , none of the weretigers had been anything but ordinary people who just happened to turn into weretigers .
`` We 're here to work the scene , '' Edward said , `` so we do . ''
I sighed , squared my shoulders , and stopped huddling in my thin jacket .
`` It 's partly that we know so much the other police need to know . ''
`` We settled this , Anita .
The ... ones who ca n't be named - `` He glared at me .
`` I really hate that we ca n't even say their names out loud .
It feels like we 're in a Harry Potter book talking about He-Who-Must-Not-B e-Name d. '' '' You know the deal , Edward ; if you mention their name without their invitation they hunt you down and kill you for it .
If I told the other police , everyone who said their name would be hunted down and slaughtered .
I do n't know about you , but these guys are scary good , and they seem to have knowledge of modern forensics . ''
`` They 're wearing cloaks , gloves , and hoods that cover their hair , Anita .
The outfits that keep them hidden from the other of these ... guys help them not leave forensic evidence behind . ''
`` Fair enough . ''
`` And the Whatevers that are on your side do n't know the faces of the others .
They wear masks when they meet , like some terrorist cells , so they can spy on each other if they need to . ''
`` So we have no faces to give them , no names except nicknames , and those match the masks they wear . ''
`` I do n't think assassins this good wear Venetian carnival masks in downtown Tacoma , so the nicknames and masks do n't help , '' he said .
`` So we know everything and nothing useful , '' I said .
`` If I 'd taken the contract to kill the Queen vampire , she 'd be dead right now . ''
`` Or you would and I 'd be talking to Peter about why he 's lost a second dad . ''
Edward gave me the full weight of his cold gaze .
`` You know how good I am at my job . ''
I 'd had years of practice meeting that cold gaze .
I met it now .
`` You do n't understand , Edward .
She 's the darkness , the night itself made alive . ''
`` I would n't have just blown her body up and called the job done , '' he said .
`` Something that supernatural needed magic to kill it for good . ''
`` What - you would have brought a witch along ? ''
`` No , but I would have gone to one and gotten charms , a blessed weapon , something .
The mercenaries the vampire council hired to kill her treated her like just another mark and now we 're all in the shit because of it . ''
I could n't argue with him ; he was too right .
The Harlequin had been the law of the vampire council in Europe for thousands of years , but their original job had been as bodyguards to their Dark Queen .
Half of them had broken with the vampire council and were back to taking orders from the Mother of All Darkness .
`` They thought fire would destroy her , '' I said .
`` Would you have assumed that ? ''
I thought about it .
`` No . ''
`` What would you have done ? ''
`` I 'd have plastered myself with holy items , thrown more holy items on the body so her spirit could n't leave the body she 's in , and taken her head and heart , then I 'd have burned it all separately down to ash , and put the ashes of the head , the heart , and the body in different bodies of running water . ''
`` You really think she could come back if you put the ashes in the same body of water ? ''
I shrugged .
`` She survived the total destruction by fire of her body and was able to send her spirit out to take over the body of other vampire council members .
I would n't put anything past her . ''
`` So even if we find Morte d'Amour , the Lover of Death , and destroy him , she 'll just jump to another host . ''
`` She can survive as a disembodied spirit , Edward ; I 'm not sure she can be killed . ''
`` Everything dies , Anita .
The universe will die eventually . ''
`` I 'm not going to sweat what happens five billion years from now , Edward ; the universe can take care of itself .
How do we stop them from killing innocent weretiger citizens , and the bigger question , how do we stop her ? ''
`` You 're the necromancer , I 'm just a humble killer , '' he said .
`` Which means , you do n't know either , '' I said .
`` Why does n't your boyfriend know ?
Jean-Claude is Master of the City of St. Louis , and what 's left of the European power structure is trying to make him head of a new vampire council here in the States .
Why are n't the vampires and all the other wereanimals you 're hanging out with helping to stop this ? ''
`` The other ... whatevers are hunting these guys .
They 'll be traveling as they hear about the bodies , but they 're behind us , Edward .
We 've been first on the ground in the last three cities . ''
`` For preternaturals that are supposed to be the greatest spies and assassins ever , they suck at anything useful . ''
`` We 're not doing much better , '' I said .
`` So the vampires ca n't help us .
We 're cops , let 's be cops , '' he said .
`` What does that mean ? ''
`` We work the scene .
This is the kill site .
This is where we can learn new things about these bastards .
Things that are n't legends , but what they did only a few hours ago .
It can help us catch them . ''
`` You really believe that ? ''
`` I have to believe that , and so do you . ''
I took in a deep breath and wished I had n't .
There was a faint bitter smell because we were standing near the end of the body .
Death is n't neat , or pretty , or clean ; it 's all outhouse smells as your body does everything it can do all at once , one last time .
`` Fine , '' I said , and I squatted beside the body on the balls of my feet .
I made myself look at the body , really look at it .
`` This body was sliced , neat , very few cuts , very efficient . ''
`` So why tear the body into pieces ? ''
`` Because they wanted to do it , and were strong enough to do it , '' I said .
`` You know that does n't feel right ; try again . ''
He stood over me , and for the first time in a long time I felt like the inexperienced newbie and he was the mentor again , telling me how to kill the monsters .
He was one of the few people on the planet I would have taken that attitude from .
`` They wanted the bodies to match the other bodies , at least superficially .
They hoped the police would think it was the same killers . ''
`` But it 's not , '' Edward said .
`` The first body and the third were savaged .
They were literally torn apart .
There were internal organs and guts everywhere .
It was like a disorganized killer with maybe an organized partner directing , or controlling him .
This is all organized .
He , or they , are doing the kills like they 've been told to , matching the first kill , but their heart is n't in it . ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
he asked .
`` This was a cold kill like the second one .
The other two kills , the murderer took joy in it . ''
`` Earth to Ralph , earth to Ralph , come in , Ralphie-baby ! ''
Roused out of his thoughts , Ralph turned toward the voice .
He was both shocked and amused to find he had almost been asleep on his feet .
Christ , he thought , you never know how important sleep is until you miss a little .
Then all the floors start to tilt and all the corners on things start to round off .
It was Hamilton Davenport , the proprietor of Back Pages , who had spoken to him .
He was stocking the library cart he kept in front of his shop with brightly jacketed paperbacks .
His old corncob pipe-to Ralph it always looked like the stack of a model steamship-jutted from the corner of his mouth , sending little puffs of blue smoke into the hot , bright air .
Winston Smith , his old gray tomcat , sat in the open doorway of the shop with his tail curled around his paws .
He looked at Ralph with yellow-eyed indifference , as if to say , You think you know old , my friend ?
I 'm here to testify you do n't know dick about getting old .
`` Sheesh , Ralph , '' Davenport said .
`` I must have called your name at least three times . ''
`` I guess I was woolgathering , '' Ralph said .
He stepped past the library cart , leaned in the doorway ( Winston Smith held his place with regal disinterest ) , and grabbed the two papers he bought every day : a Boston Globe and a USA Today .
The Derry News came right to the house , courtesy of Pete the paperboy .
Ralph sometimes told people that he was sure one of the three papers was comic relief , but he had never been able to make up his mind which one it was .
`` I haven't- '' He broke off as Ed Deepneau 's face came into his mind .
It was out by the airport last summer he 'd heard that nasty little chant from , and it really was n't any wonder it had taken him a little while to retrieve the memory , Ed Deepneau was the last person in the world from whom you 'd expect to hear something like that .
`` Ralphie ? ''
Davenport said .
`` You just shut down on me . ''
Ralph blinked .
`` Oh , sorry .
I have n't been sleeping very well , that 's what I started to say . ''
`` Bummer ... but there are worse problems .
just drink a glass of warm milk and listen to some quiet music half an hour before bed . ''
Ralph had begun to discover this summer that everyone in America apparently had a pet remedy for insomnia , some bit of bedtime magic that had been handed down through the generations like the family Bible .
`` Bach 's good , also Beethoven , and William Ackerman ai n't bad .
But the real trick '' -Davenport raised one finger impressively to emphasize this- '' is not to get up from your chair during that half hour .
Not for anything .
Do n't answer the phone , do n't wind up the dog and put out the alarm-clock , do n't decide to brush your teeth ... nothing .
Then , when you do go to bed ... barn !
Out like a light ! ''
`` What if you 're sitting there in your favorite easy chair and all at once you realize you have a call of nature ? ''
Ralph asked .
`` These things can come on pretty suddenly when you get to be my age . ''
`` Do it in your pants , '' Davenport said promptly , and burst out laughing .
Ralph smiled , but it had a dutiful feel .
His insomnia was rapidly losing whatever marginal humor value it might once have had .
`` In your pants . ''
Ham chortled .
He slapped the library cart and wagged his head back and forth .
Ralph happened to glance down at the cat .
Winston Smith looked blandly back at him , and to Ralph his calm yellow gaze seemed to say , Yes , that 's right , He 's a fool , but he 's my fool .
`` Not bad , huh ?
Hamilton Davenport , master of the snappy comeback .
Do it in your .
He snorted laughter , shook his head , then took the two dollar bills Ralph was holding out .
He slipped them into the pocket of his short red apron and came out with some change .
`` That about right ? ''
`` You bet .
Thanks , Ham . ''
Uh-huh .
And all joking aside , try the music .
It really works .
Mellows out your brain-waves , or something . ''
`` I will . ''
And the devil of it was , he probably would , as he had already tried Mrs. Rapaport 's lemon-and-hot-water recipe , and Shawna McClure 's advice on how to clear his mind by slowing his respiration and concentrating on the word cool ( except when Shawna said it , the word came out cuhhhh-ooooooooooool ) .
When you were trying to deal with a slow but relentless erosion of your good sleeptime , any folk remedy started to look good .
Ralph began to turn away , then turned back .
`` What 's with that poster next door ? ''
Ham Davenport wrinkled his nose .
`` Dan Dalton 's place ?
I do n't look in there at all , if I can help it .
Screws up my appetite .
Has he got something new and disgusting in the window ? ''
`` I guess it 's new-it 's not as yellow as the rest of them , and there 's a notable lack of flydirt on it .
Looks like a wanted poster , only it 's Susan Day in the photos . ''
`` Susan Day on a-son of a bitch ! ''
He cast a dark and humorless look at the shop next door .
`` What is she , President of the National Organization of Women , or something ? ''
`` Ex-President and co-founder of Sisters in Arms .
Author of My Mother 's Shadow and Lilies of the Valley-that one 's a study of battered women and why so many of them refuse to blow the whistle on the men that batter them .
She won a Pulitzer Prize for it .
Susie Day 's one of the three or four most politically influential women in America right now , and she can really write as well as think .
That clown knows I 've got one of her petitions sitting right by my cash register . ''
`` What petitions ? ''
`` We 're trying to get her up here to speak , '' Davenport said .
`` You know the right-to-lifers tried to firebomb WomanCare last Christmas , right ? ''
Ralph cast his mind cautiously back into the black pit he 'd been living in at the end of 1992 and said , `` Well , I remember that the cops caught some guy in the hospital 's long-term parking lot with a can of gasoline , but I did n't know- '' '' That was Charlie Pickering .
He 's a member of Daily Bread , one of the right-to-life groups that keep the pickets marching out there , '' Davenport said .
`` They put him up to it , too-take my word .
This year they 're not bothering with gasoline , though ; they 're going to try to get the City Council to change the zoning regulations and squeeze WomanCare right out of existence .
They just might do it , too .
You know Derry , Ralph-it 's not exactly a hotbed of liberalism . ''
`` No , '' Ralph said with a wan smile .
`` It 's never been that , and WomanCare is an abortion clinic , is n't it ? ''
Davenport gave him an out-of-patience look and jerked his head in the direction of Secondhand Rose .
`` That 's what assholes like him call it , '' he said , `` only they like to use the word mill instead of clinic .
They ignore all the other stuff WomanCare does . ''
To Ralph , Davenport had begun to sound a little like the TV announcer who hawked run-free pantyhose during the Sunday afternoon movie .
`` They 're involved in family counselling , they deal with spouse and child abuse , and they run a shelter for abused women over by the Newport town line .
They have a rape crisis center at the in-town building by the hospital , and a twenty-four-hour hotline for women who 've been raped or beaten .
In short , they stand for all the things that make Marlboro Men like Dalton shit bullets . ''
`` But they do perform abortions , '' Ralph said .
`` That 's what the pickets are about , right ? ''
There had been sign-carrying demonstrators in front of the lowslung , unobtrusive brick building that housed WomanCare for years , it seemed to Ralph .
They always looked too pale to him , too intense , too skinny or too fat , too utterly sure that God was on their side , The signs they carried said things like THE UNBORN HAVE RIGHTS , TOO and LIFE , WHAT A BEAUTIFUL CHOICE and that old standby , ABORTION IS MURDER !
On several occasions women using the clinic-which was near Derry Home but not actually associated with it , Ralph thought-had been spat upon .
Others might laugh at such a fancy , but Bill would n't laugh .
Bill would be mad .
Bill would say , `` Grow up , Georgie ... do you want this boat or not ? ''
As if this thought were his cue , Bill called from his bedroom : `` did you d-d-die out there , Juh-Georgie ? ''
`` No , I 'm gettin it , Bill , '' George called back at once .
He rubbed at his arms , trying to make the guilty gooseflesh disappear and be smooth skin again .
`` I just stopped to get a drink of water . ''
`` Well , h-hurry up ! ''
It , growling deeply-he would hear the growl in those lunatic seconds before it pounced on him and unzipped his guts .
The cellar-smell was worse than ever today , because of the flood .
Their house was high on Witcham Street , near the crest of the hill , and they had escaped the worst of it , but there was still standing water down there that had seeped in through the old rock foundations .
The smell was low and unpleasant , making you want to take only the shallowest breaths .
George sifted through the junk on the shelf as fast as he could-old cans of Kiwi shoepolish and shoepolish rags , a broken kerosene lamp , two mostly empty bottles of Windex , an old flat can of Turtle wax .
For some reason this can struck him , and he spent nearly thirty seconds looking at the turtle on the lid with a kind of hypnotic wonder .
Then he tossed it back ... and here it was at last , a square box with the word GULF on it .
It banged gustily .
He leaned back against it with his eyes closed , sweat popped out on his arms and forehead , the box of paraffin gripped tightly in one hand .
The piano had come to a stop , and his mom 's voice floated to him : `` Georgie , ca n't you slam that door a little harder next time ?
Maybe you could break some of the plates in the Welsh dresser , if you really tried . ''
`` Sorry , Mom , '' he called back .
`` Georgie , you waste , '' Bill said from his bedroom .
He pitched his voice low so their mother would not hear .
George snickered a little .
His fear was already gone ; it had slipped away from him as easily as a nightmare slips away from a man who awakes , cold-skinned and gasping , from its grip ; who feels his body and stares at his surroundings to make sure that none of it ever happened and who then begins at once to forget it .
Half is gone by the time his feet hit the floor ; three-quarters of it by the time he emerges from the shower and begins to towel off ; all of it by the time he finishes his breakfast .
All gone ... until the next time , when , in the grip of the nightmare , all fears will be remembered .
That turtle , George thought , going to the counter drawer where the matches were kept .
Where did I see a turtle like that before ?
But no answer came , and he dismissed the question .
He got a pack of matches from the drawer , a knife from the rack ( holding the sharp edge studiously away from his body , as his dad had taught him ) , and a small bowl from the Welsh dresser in the dining room .
Then he went back into Bill 's room .
`` W-What an a-hole you are , Juh-Georgie , '' Bill said , amiably enough , and pushed back some of the sick-stuff on his nighttable : an empty glass , a pitcher of water , Kleenex , books , a bottle of Vicks VapoRub-the smell of which Bill would associate all his life with thick , phlegmy chests and snotty noses .
The old Philco radio was there , too , playing not Chopin or Bach but a Little Richard tune ... very softly , however , so softly that Little Richard was robbed of all his raw and elemental power .
Their mother , who had studied classical piano at Juilliard , hated rock and roll .
She did not merely dislike it ; she abominated it .
`` I 'm no a-hole , '' George said , sitting on the edge of Bill 's bed and putting the things he had gathered on the nighttable .
`` Yes you are , '' Bill said .
`` Nothing but a great big brown a-hole , that 's you . ''
George tried to imagine a kid who was nothing but a great big a-hole on legs and began to giggle .
`` Your a-hole is bigger than Augusta , '' Bill said , beginning to giggle , too .
`` Four a-hole is bigger than the whole state , '' George replied .
This broke both boys up for nearly two minutes .
There followed a whispered conversation of the sort which means very little to anyone save small boys : accusations of who was the biggest a-hole , who had the biggest a-hole , which a-hole was the brownest , and so on .
Finally Bill said one of the forbidden words-he accused George of being a big brown shitty a-hole-and they both got laughing hard .
Bill 's laughter turned into a coughing fit .
As it finally began to taper off ( by then Bill 's face had gone a plummy shade which George regarded with some alarm ) , the piano stopped again .
They both looked in the direction of the parlor , listening for the piano-bench to scrape back , listening for their mother 's impatient footsteps .
Bill buried his mouth in the crook of his elbow , stifling the last of the coughs , pointing at the pitcher at the same time .
George poured him a glass of water , which he drank off .
The piano began once more-Fur Elise again .
Stuttering Bill never forgot that piece , and even many years later it never failed to bring gooseflesh to his arms and back ; his heart would drop and he would remember : My mother was playing that the day Georgie died .
`` You gon na cough anymore , Bill ? ''
`` No . ''
Bill pulled a Kleenex from the box , made a rumbling sound in his chest , spat phlegm into the tissue , screwed it up , and tossed it into the wastebasket by his bed , which was filled with similar twists of tissue .
Then he opened the box of paraffin and dropped a waxy cube of the stuff into his palm .
George watched him closely , but without speaking or questioning .
Bill did n't like George talking to him while he did stuff , but George had learned that if he just kept his mouth shut , Bill would usually explain what he was doing .
Bill used the knife to cut off a small piece of the paraffin cube .
He put the piece in the bowl , then struck a match and put it on top of the paraffin .
The two boys watched the small yellow flame as the dying wind drove rain against the window in occasional spatters .
`` Got to waterproof the boat or it 'll just get wet and sink , '' Bill said .
When he was with George , his stutter was light-sometimes he did n't stutter at all .
In school , however , it could become so bad that talking became impossible for him .
Communication would cease and Bill 's schoolmates would look somewhere else while Bill clutched the sides of his desk , his face growing almost as red as his hair , his eyes squeezed into slits as he tried to winch some word out of his stubborn throat .
Sometimes-most times-the word would come .
Other times it simply refused .
He had been hit by a car when he was three and knocked into the side of a building ; he had remained unconscious for seven hours .
Mom said it was that accident which had caused the stutter .
George sometimes got the feeling that his dad-and Bill himself-was not so sure .
The piece of paraffin in the bowl was almost entirely melted .
The match-flame guttered lower , growing blue as it hugged the cardboard stick , and then it went out .
Bill dipped his finger into the liquid , jerked it out with a faint hiss .
He smiled apologetically at George .
`` Hot , '' he said .
After a few seconds he dipped his finger in again and began to smear the wax along the sides of the boat , where it quickly dried to a milky haze .
`` Can I do some ? ''
George asked .
`` Okay .
Just do n't get any on the blankets or Mom 'll kill you . ''
George dipped his finger into the paraffin , which was now very warm but no longer hot , and began to spread it along the other side of the boat .
`` Do n't put on so much , you a-hole ! ''
Bill said .
`` You want to sink it on its m-maiden cruise ? ''
`` I 'm sorry . ''
`` That 's all right .
Just g-go easy . ''
George finished the other side , then held the boat in his hands .
It felt a little heavier , but not much .
`` Too cool , '' he said .
`` I 'm gon na go out and sail it . ''
`` Yeah , you do that , '' Bill said .
He suddenly looked tired-tired and still not very well .
`` I wish you could come , '' George said .
He really did .
Bill sometimes got bossy after awhile , but he always had the coolest ideas and he hardly ever hit .
`` It 's your boat , really . ''
`` She , '' Bill said .
`` You call boats sh-she . ''
Other tracks were large , and cut deeper in the sand .
Tina was looking idly at the tracks when she heard a chirping , followed by a rustling in the mangrove thicket .
Did sloths make a chirping sound ?
Tina did n't think so , but she was n't sure .
The chirping was probably some ocean bird .
She waited quietly , not moving , hearing the rustling again , and finally she saw the source of the sounds , A few yards away , a lizard emerged from the mangrove roots and peered at her .
Tina held her breath .
A new animal for her list !
The lizard stood up on its hind legs , balancing on its thick tail , and stared at her .
Standing like that , it was almost a foot tall , dark green with brown stripes along its back .
Its tiny front legs ended in little lizard fingers that wiggled in the air .
The lizard cocked its head as it looked at her .
Tina thought it was cute .
Sort of like a big salamander .
She raised her hand and wiggled her fingers back .
The lizard was n't frightened .
It came toward her , walking upright on its hind legs .
It was hardly bigger than a chicken , and like a chicken it bobbed its head as it walked .
Tina thought it would make a wonderful pet .
She noticed that the lizard left three-toed tracks that looked exactly like bird tracks .
The lizard came closer to Tina .
She kept her body still , not wanting to frighten the little animal .
She was amazed that it would come so close , but she remembered that this was a national park .
All the animals in the park would know that they were protected .
This lizard was probably tame .
Maybe it even expected her to give it some food .
Unfortunately she did n't have any .
Slowly , Tina extended her hand , palm open , to show she did n't have any food .
The lizard paused , cocked his head , and chirped .
`` Sorry , '' Tina said .
`` I just do n't have anything . ''
And then , without warning , the lizard jumped up onto her outstretched hand .
Tina could feel its little toes pinching the skin of her palm , and she felt the surprising weight of the animal 's body pressing her arm down .
And then the lizard scrambled up her arm , toward her face .
`` I just wish I could see her , '' Ellen Bowman said , squinting in the sunlight .
`` That 's all .
Just see her . ''
`` I 'm sure she 's fine , '' Mike said , picking through the box lunch packed by the hotel .
There was unappetizing grilled chicken , and some kind of a meat-filled pastry .
Not that Ellen would cat any of it .
`` You do n't think she 'd leave the beach ? ''
Ellen said .
`` No , hon , I do n't . ''
`` I feel so isolated here , '' Ellen said .
`` I thought that 's what you wanted , '' Mike Bowman said .
`` I did . ''
`` Well , then , what 's the problem ? ''
`` I just wish I could see her , is all , '' Ellen said .
Then , from down the beach , carried by the wind , they heard their daughter 's voice .
She was screaming .
Puntarenas '' I think she is quite comfortable now , '' Dr. Cruz said , lowering the plastic flap of the oxygen tent around Tina as she slept .
Mike Bowman sat beside the bed , close to his daughter .
Mike thought Dr. Cruz was probably pretty capable ; he spoke excellent English , the result of training at medical centers In London and Baltimore .
Dr. Cruz radiated competence , and the Clnica Santa Mara , the modern hospital in Puntarenas , was spotless and efficient .
But , even so , Mike Bowman felt nervous .
There was no getting around the fact that his only daughter was desperately ill , and they were far from home .
When Mike had first reached Tina , she was screaming hysterically .
Her whole left arm was bloody , covered with a profusion of small bites , each the size of a thumbprint .
And there were flecks of sticky foam on her arm , like a foamy saliva .
He carried her back down the beach .
Almost immediately her arm began to redden and swell .
Mike would not soon forget the frantic drive back to civilization , the four-wheel-drive Land Rover slipping and sliding up the muddy track into the hills , while his daughter screamed in fear and pain , and her arm grew more bloated and red .
Long before they reached the park boundaries , the swelling had spread to her neck , and then Tina began to have trouble breathing ... ... '' She 'll be all right now ? ''
Ellen said , staring through the plastic oxygen tent .
`` I believe so , '' Dr. Cruz said .
`` I have given her another dose of steroids , and her breathing is much easier .
And you can see the edema in her arm is greatly reduced . ''
Mike Bowman said , `` About those bites ... '' '' We have no identification yet , '' the doctor said .
`` I myself have n't seen bites like that before .
But you 'll notice they are disappearing .
It 's already quite difficult to make them out .
Fortunately I have taken photographs for reference .
And I have washed her arm to collect some samples of the sticky saliva-one for analysis here , a second to send to the labs in San Jose , and the third we will keep frozen in case it is needed .
Do you have the picture she made ? ''
`` Yes , '' Mike Bowman said .
He handed the doctor the sketch that Tina had drawn , in response to questions from the admitting officials .
`` This is the animal that bit her ? ''
Dr. Cruz said , looking at the picture .
`` Yes , '' Mike Bowman said .
`` She said it was a green lizard , the size of a chicken or a crow . ''
`` I do n't know of such a lizard , '' the doctor said .
`` She has drawn it standing on its hind legs ... ... '' '' That 's right , '' Mike Bowman said .
`` She said it walked on its hind legs . ''
Dr. Cruz frowned .
He stared at the picture a while longer .
`` I am not an expert .
I 've asked for Dr. Guitierrez to visit us here .
He is a senior researcher at the Reserva Biolgica de Carara , which is across the bay .
Perhaps he can identify the animal for us . ''
`` Is n't there someone from Cabo Blanco ? ''
Bowman asked .
`` That 's where she was bitten . ''
`` Unfortunately not , '' Dr. Cruz said .
`` Cabo Blanco has no permanent staff , and no researcher has worked there for some time .
You were probably the first people to walk on that beach in several months .
But I am sure you will find Dr. Guitierrez to be knowledgeable . ''
Dr. Guitierrez turned out to be a bearded man wearing khaki shorts and shirt .
The surprise was that he was American .
He was introduced to the Bowmans , saying in a soft Southern accent , `` Mr. and Mrs .
Bowman , how you doing , nice to meet you , '' and then explaining that he was a field biologist from Yale who had worked in Costa Rica for the last five years .
Then he 'd tell them the P.S .
she 'd tacked on the note. ''
'I have taken Frank with me and left Screwlucy for you .
I thought this would probably be the way you 'd want it .
Love , Lulu . '
`` If the DeWitt family was a fork , Screwlucy and Frank were the other two tines on it .
If there was n't a fork ( and speaking for myself , I 've always felt marriage was more like a knife - the dangerous kind with two sharp edges ) , Screwlucy and Frank could still be said to sum up everything that went wrong in the marriage of L.T .
and Lulubelle .
Because , think of it - although Lulubelle bought Frank for L.T .
( first wedding anniversary ) and L.T .
bought Lucy , soon to be Screwlucy , for Lulubelle ( second wedding anniversary ) , they each wound up with the other .
one 's pets when Lulu walked out on the marriage .
`` She got me that dog because I liked the one on Frasier , '' L.T .
would say .
`` That kind of dog 's a terrier , but I do n't remember now what they call that kind .
A Jack something .
Jack Sprat ?
Jack Robinson ?
Jack Shit ?
You know how a thing like that gets on the tip of your tongue ? ''
Somebody would tell him that Frasier 's dog was a Jack Russell terrier and L.T .
would nod emphatically .
`` That 's right ! ''
he 'd exclaim .
`` Sure !
Exactly !
That 's what Frank was , all right , a Jack Russell terrier .
But you want to know the cold hard truth ?
An hour from now , that will have slipped away from me again - it 'll be there in my brain , but like something behind a rock .
An hour from now , I 'll be going to myself , 'What did that guy say Frank was ?
A Jack Handle terrier ?
A Jack Rabbit terrier ?
That 's close , I know that 's close ... 'And so on .
Why ?
I think because I just hated that little fuck so much .
That barking rat .
That fur-covered shit machine .
I hated it from the first time I laid eyes on it .
There .
It 's out and I 'm glad .
And do you know what ?
Frank felt the same about me .
It was hate at first sight .
`` You know how some men train their dog to bring them their slippers ?
Frank would n't bring me my slippers , but he 'd puke in them .
Yes .
The first time he did it , I stuck my right foot right into it .
It was like sticking your foot into warm tapioca with extra big lumps in it .
Although I did n't see him , my theory is that he waited outside the bedroom door until he saw me coming - fucking lurked outside the bedroom door - then went in , unloaded in my right slipper , then hid under the bed to watch the fun .
I deduce that on the basis of how it was still warm .
Fucking dog .
Man 's best friend , my ass .
I wanted to take it to the pound after that , had the leash out and everything , but Lulu threw an absolute shit fit .
You would have thought she 'd come into the kitchen and caught me trying to give the dog a drain-cleaner enema. ''
'If you take Frank to the pound , you might as well take me to the pound , ' she says , starting to cry .
'That 's all you think of him , and that 's all you think of me .
Honey , all we are to you is nuisances you 'd like to be rid of .
That 's the cold hard truth . '
I mean , oh my bleeding piles , on and on. ''
'He puked in my slipper , ' I says .
`The dog puked in his slipper so off with his head , ' she says .
'Oh , sugarpie , if only you could hear yourself ! '
`` 'Hey , ' I say , 'you try sticking your bare foot into a slipper filled with dog puke and see how you like it . '
Getting mad by then , you know .
`` Except getting mad at Lulu never did any good .
Most times , if you had the king , she had the ace .
If you had the ace , she had a trump .
Also , the woman would fucking escalate .
If something happened and I got irritated , she 'd get pissed .
If I got pissed , she 'd get mad .
If I got mad , she 'd go fucking Red Alert Defcon I and empty the missile silos .
I 'm talking scorched flicking earth .
Mostly it was n't worth it .
Except almost every time we 'd get into a fight , I 'd forget that .
`` She goes , 'Oh dear .
Maple duff stuck his wittle footie in a wittle spit-up . '
I tried to get in there , tell her that was n't right , spit-up is like drool , spit-up does n't have these big flicking chunks in it , but she wo n't let me get a word out .
By then she 's over in the passing lane and cruising , all pumped up and ready to teach school .
'Let me tell you something , honey , ' she goes , 'a little drool in your slipper is very minor stuff .
You men slay me .
Try being a woman sometimes , okay ?
Try always being the one that ends up laying with the small of your back in that come-spot , or the one that goes to the toilet in the middle of the night and the guy 's left the goddam ring up and you splash your can right down into this cold water .
Little midnight skindiving .
All my life I 've been living with this , honey - a father , four brothers , one ex-husband , plus a few roommates that are none of your business at this late date-and you 're ready to send poor Frank off to the gas factory because just one time he happened to reflux a little drool into your slipper . '
`` 'My fur-lined slipper , ' I tell her , but it 's just a little shot back over my shoulder .
One thing about living with Lulu , and maybe to my credit , I always knew when I was beat .
When I lost , it was fucking decisive .
One thing I certainly was n't going to tell her even though I knew it for a fact was that the dog puked in my slipper on purpose , the same way that he peed on my underwear on purpose if I forgot to put it in the hamper before I went off to work .
She could leave her bras and pants scattered around from hell to Harvard - and did - but if I left so much as a pair of athletic socks in the corner , I 'd come home and find that fucking Jack Shit terrier had given it a lemonade shower .
But tell her that ?
She would have been booking me time with a psychiatrist .
She would have been doing that even though she knew it was true .
Because then she might have had to take the stuff I was saying seriously , and she did n't want to .
She loved Frank , you see , and Frank loved her .
They were like Romeo and Juliet or Rocky and Adrian .
`` Frank would come to her chair while we were watching TV , lie down on the floor beside her , and put his muzzle on her shoe .
Just lie there like that all night , looking up at her , all soulful and loving and with his butt pointed in my direction so if he should have to blow a little gas , I 'd get the full benefit of it .
He loved her and she loved him .
Why ?
`` Do you think it 's clever ?
Filling your lungs with rubbish , killing yourself ?
We did n't bring you up to watch you give yourself cancer !
We do n't need this , certainly not at this time , not when - `` '' Enough ! ''
Dad shouts , and we both jump .
Dad almost never shouts .
He usually gets very quiet when he 's angry .
Now his face is red and he 's glaring - but at both of us , not just me .
Mum coughs , as if she 's embarrassed .
She sits , brushes her hair back off her face and looks at me with wounded eyes .
I hate when she pulls a face like this .
It 's impossible to look at her straight or argue .
`` I want you to stop , Grubbs , '' Dad says , back in control now .
`` We 're not going to punish you - `` Mum starts to object , but Dad silences her with a curt wave of his hand `` - but I want your word that you 'll stop .
I know it wo n't be easy .
I know your friends will give you a hard time .
But this is important .
Some things matter more than looking cool .
Will you promise , Grubbs ? ''
He pauses .
`` Of course , that 's if you 're able to quit ... '' Of course I 'm able , '' I mutter .
`` I 'm not addicted or anything . ''
`` Then will you ?
For your sake - not ours ? ''
I shrug , trying to act like it 's no big thing , like I was planning to stop anyway .
`` Sure , if you 're going to make that much of a fuss about it , '' I yawn .
Dad smiles .
Mum smiles .
I smile .
Then Gret walks in the back door and she 's smiling too - but it 's an evil , big-sister-superior smile .
`` Have we sorted all our little problems out yet ? ''
she asks , voice high and fake-innocent .
And I know instantly - Gret grassed me up to Mum !
She found out I was smoking and she told .
The cow !
As she swishes past , beaming like an angel , I burn fiery holes in the back of her head with my eyes , and a single word echoes through my head like the sound of ungodly thunder ...
Revenge !
I love rubbish dumps .
You can find all sorts of disgusting stuff there .
The perfect place to go browsing if you want to get even with your annoying traitor of a sister .
I climb over mounds of garbage and root through black bags and soggy cardboard boxes .
I 'm not sure exactly what I 'm going to use , or in what fashion , so I wait for inspiration to strike .
Then , in a small plastic bag , I find six dead rats , necks broken , just starting to rot .
Excellent !
Look out , Gret - here I come !
Eating breakfast at the kitchen table .
Radio turned down low .
Listening to the noises upstairs .
Trying not to giggle .
Waiting for the outburst .
Gret 's in her shower .
She showers at least twice a day , before she goes to school and when she gets back .
Sometimes she has one before going to bed too .
I do n't know why anybody would bother to keep themselves so clean .
I reckon it 's a form of madness .
Because she 's so obsessed with showering , Mum and Dad gave her the en suite bedroom .
They figured I would n't mind .
And I do n't .
In fact , it 's perfect .
I would n't have been able to pull my trick if Gret did n't have her own shower , with its very own towel rack .
The shower goes off .
Splatters , then drips , then silence .
I tense with excitement .
I know Gret 's routines inside out .
She always pulls her towel down off its rack after she 's showered , not before .
I ca n't hear her footsteps , but I imagine her taking the three or four steps to the towel rack .
Reaching up .
Pulling it down .
Aaaaaaaaannnddd ... On cue - screams galore .
A shocked single scream to start .
Then a volley of them , one running into another .
I push my bowl of soggy cornflakes aside and prepare myself for the biggest laugh of the year .
Mum and Dad are by the sink , discussing the day ahead .
They go stiff when they hear the screams , then dash towards the stairs , which I can see from where I 'm sitting .
Gret appears before they reach the stairs .
Crashes out of her room , screaming , slapping bloody shreds from her arms , tearing them from her hair .
She 's covered in red .
Towel clutched with one hand over her front - even terrified out of her wits , there 's no way she 's going to come down naked !
`` What 's wrong ? ''
Mum shouts .
`` What 's happening ? ''
`` Blood ! ''
Gret screams .
`` I 'm covered in blood !
I pulled the towel down !
I ... '' She stops .
She 's spotted me laughing .
I 'm doubled over .
It 's the funniest thing I 've ever seen .
Mum turns and looks at me .
Dad does too .
They 're speechless .
Gret picks a sticky pink chunk out of her hair , slowly this time , and studies it .
`` What did you put on my towel ? ''
she asks quietly .
`` Rat guts ! ''
I howl , pounding the table , crying with laughter .
`` I got ... rats at the rubbish dump ... chopped them up ... and ... '' I almost get sick , I 'm laughing so much .
Mum stares at me .
Dad stares at me .
Just to see her again ... to experience the slightest touch of her hand .
Eh , Steve ?
The fat chuckle came again , shivering in my ear like something just turned out of a Jell-O mold .
`` I imagine Mr. Ring would like to be included , yes . ''
`` Did you have a place in mind ? ''
I wondered for a moment who would be paying for this lunch , and then had to smile at my own naivete .
I reached into my pocket for a cigarette and poked the tip of a toothpick under my thumbnail instead .
I winced , brought the pick out , checked the tip for blood , saw none , and stuck it in my mouth .
Humboldt had said something , but I had missed it .
The sight of the toothpick had reminded me all over again that I was floating smokeless on the waves of the world .
`` Pardon me ? ''
`` I asked if you know the Gotham Cafe on Fifty-third Street , '' he said , sounding a touch impatient now .
`` Between Madison and Park . ''
`` No , but I 'm sure I can find it . ''
`` Noon ? ''
`` Noon 's fine , '' I said , and thought of telling him to tell Diane to wear the green dress with the little black speckles and the slit up the side .
`` I 'll just check with my lawyer . ''
It occurred to me that that was a pompous , hateful little phrase , one I could n't wait to stop using .
`` Do that , and call me back if there 's a problem . ''
I called John Ring , who hemmed and hawed enough to justify his retainer ( not outrageous , but considerable ) and then said he supposed a meeting was in order `` at this time . ''
I hung up , settled back in front of my computer terminal , and wondered how I was possibly going to be able to meet Diane again without at least one cigarette beforehand .
On the morning of our scheduled lunch , John Ring called and told me he could n't make it , and that I would have to cancel .
`` It 's my mother , '' he said , sounding harried .
`` She fell down the damned stairs and broke her hip .
Out in Babylon .
I 'm leaving now for Penn Station .
I 'll have to take the train . ''
He spoke in the tone of a man saying he 'll have to go by camel across the Gobi .
I thought for a second , jiggling a fresh toothpick between my fingers .
Two used ones lay beside my computer terminal , the ends frayed .
I was going to have to watch that ; it was all too easy to imagine my stomach filling up with sharp little splinterettes .
The replacement of one bad habit with another seems almost inevitable , I 've noticed .
`` Steven ?
Are you there ? ''
`` Yes , '' I said .
`` I 'm sorry about your mother , but I 'm going to keep the lunch-date . ''
He sighed , and when he spoke he sounded sympathetic as well as harried .
`` I understand that you want to see her , and that 's the reason why you have to be very careful , and make no mistakes .
You 're not Donald Trump and she 's not Ivana , but this is n't a no-faulter we got here , either , where you get your decree by registered mail .
You 've done very well for yourself , Steven , especially in the last five years . ''
`` I know , but - `` '' And for thuh- ree of those years , '' Ring overrode me , now putting on his courtroom voice like an overcoat , `` Diane Davis was not your wife , not your live-in companion , and not by any stretch of the imagination your helpmate .
She was just Diane Coslaw from Pound Ridge , and she did not go before you tossing flower-petals or blowing a cornet . ''
`` No , but I want to see her . ''
And what I was thinking would have driven him mad : I wanted to see if she was wearing the green dress with the black speckles , because she knew damned well it was my favorite .
He sighed again .
`` I ca n't have this discussion , or I 'm going to miss my train .
There is n't another one until one-oh-one . ''
`` Go and catch your train . ''
`` I will , but first I 'm going to make one more effort to get through to you .
A meeting like this is like a joust .
The lawyers are the knights ; the clients are reduced , for the time being , to no more than squires with Sir Barrister 's lance in one hand and the reins of his horse in the other . ''
His tone suggested that this was an old image , and well-loved .
`` What you 're telling me is that , since I ca n't be there , you 're going to hop on my nag and go galloping at the other guy with no lance , no armor , no faceplate , probably not even a jockstrap . ''
`` I want to see her , '' I said .
`` I want to see how she is .
How she looks .
Hey , without you there , maybe Humboldt wo n't even want to talk . ''
`` Oh , would n't that be nice , '' he said , and came out with a small , cynical laugh .
`` I 'm not going to talk you out of it , am I ? ''
`` All right , then I want you to follow certain instructions .
If I find out you have n't , and that you 've gummed up the works , I may decide it would be simpler to just resign the case .
Are you hearing me ? ''
`` I 'm hearing you . ''
`` Good .
Do n't yell at her , Steven .
That 's big number one .
Are you hearing that ? ``
`` Yes . ''
I was n't going to yell at her .
If I could quit smoking two days after she had walked out - and stick to it - I thought I could get through a hundred minutes and three courses without calling her a bitch .
`` Do n't yell at him , that 's number two . ''
`` Okay . ''
`` Do n't just say okay .
I know you do n't like him , and he does n't like you much , either . ''
`` He 's never even met me .
How can he have an opinion about me one way or another ? ''
`` Do n't be dense , '' he said .
`` He 's being paid to have an opinion , that 's how .
So say okay like you mean it . ''
`` Okay like I mean it . ''
`` Better . ''
But he did n't say it like he really meant it ; he said it like a man who is checking his watch .
`` Do n't get into substantive matters , '' he said .
`` Do n't discuss financial-settlement issues , not even on a 'What would you think if I suggested this ' basis .
If he gets pissed off and asks why you kept the lunch-date if you were n't going to discuss nuts and bolts , tell him just what you told me , that you wanted to see your wife again . ''
`` Okay . ''
`` And if they leave at that point , can you live with it ? ''
`` Yes . ''
I did n't know if I could or not , but I thought I could , and I knew that Ring wanted to catch his train .
`` As a lawyer - your lawyer - I 'm telling you that this is a bullshit move , and that if it backfires in court , I 'll call a recess just so I can pull you out into the hall and say I told you so .
Now have you got that ? ''
`` Yes .
Say hello to your mother . ''
`` Maybe tonight , '' Ring said , and now he sounded as if he were rolling his eyes .
`` I wo n't get a word in until then .
I have to run , Steven . ''
`` Okay . ''
`` I hope she stands you up . ''
`` I know you do . ''
He hung up and went to see his mother , out in Babylon .
The reason she had to bring him the bedpan so infrequently was not only because he was on a diet consisting entirely of liquids and gelatines ( earlier , when he was in the cloud , she had fed him intravenously ) , but also because Novril had a tendency to cause constipation in patients taking it .
Another side-effect , a rather more serious one , was respiratory depression in sensitive patients .
Paul was not particularly sensitive , even though he had been a heavy smoker for nearly eighteen years , but his breathing had stopped nonetheless on at least one occasion ( there might have been others , in the haze , that he did not remember ) .
That was the time she gave him mouth-to-mouth .
It might have just been one of those things which happened , but he later came to suspect she had nearly killed him with an accidental overdose .
She did n't know as much about what she was doing as she believed she did .
That was only one of the things about Annie that scared him .
He discovered three things almost simultaneously , about ten days after having emerged from the dark cloud .
The first was that Annie Wilkes had a great deal of Novril ( she had in fact , a great many drugs of all kinds ) .
The second was that he was hooked on Novril .
The third was that Annie Wilkes was dangerously crazy .
5 The darkness had prologued the pain and the storm-cloud ; he began to remember what had prologued the darkness as she told him what had happened to him .
This was shortly , after he had asked the traditional when-the-sleeper-wakes question and she had told him he was in the little town of Sidewinder , Colorado .
In addition she told him that she had read each of his eight novels at least twice , and had read her very favorites , the Misery novels , four , five , maybe six times .
She only wished he would write them faster .
She said she had hardly been able to believe that her patient was really that Paul Sheldon even after checking the ID in his wallet .
`` Where is my wallet , by the way ? ''
he asked .
`` I 've kept it safe for you , '' she said .
Her smile suddenly collapsed into a narrow watchfulness he did n't like much - it was like discovering a deep crevasse almost obscured by summer flowers in the midst of a smiling , jocund meadow .
`` Did you think I 'd steal something out of it ? ''
`` No , of course not .
It 's just that - `` It 's just that the rest of my life is in it , he thought .
My life outside this room .
Outside the pain .
Outside the way time seems to stretch out like the long pink string of bubble-gum a kid pulls out of his mouth when he 's bored .
Because that 's how it is in the last hour or so before the pills come .
`` Just what , Mister Man ? ''
she persisted , and he saw with alarm that the narrow look was growing blacker and blacker .
The crevasse was spreading , as if an earthquake was going on behind her brow .
He could hear the steady , keen whine of the wind outside , and he had a sudden image of her picking him up and throwing him over her solid shoulder , where he would lie like a burlap sack slung over a stone wall , and taking him outside , and heaving him into a snowdrift .
He would freeze to death , but before he did , his legs would throb and scream .
`` It 's just that my father always told me to keep my eye on my wallet , '' he said , astonished by how easily this lie came out .
His father had made a career out of not noticing Paul any more than he absolutely had to , and had , so far as Paul could remember , offered him only a single piece of advice in his entire life .
On Paul 's fourteenth birthday his father had given him a Red Devil condom in a foil envelope .
`` Put that in your wallet , '' Roger Sheldon said , `` and if you ever get excited while you 're making out at the drive-in , take a second between excited enough to want to and too excited to care and slip that on .
Too many bastards in the world already , and I do n't want to see you going in the Army at sixteen . ''
Now Paul went on : `` I guess he told me to keep my eye on my wallet so many times that it 's stuck inside for good .
If I offended you , I 'm truly sorry . ''
She relaxed .
Smiled .
The crevasse closed .
Summer flowers nodded cheerfully once again .
He thought of pushing his hand through that smile and encountering nothing but flexible darkness .
`` No offense taken .
It 's in a safe place .
Wait - I 've got something for you . ''
She left and returned with a steaming bowl of soup .
There were vegetables floating in it .
He was not able to eat much but he ate more than he thought at first he could .
She seemed pleased .
She had gone into Sidewinder in the four-wheel drive to get feed for the livestock and a few groceries ... also to check out the paperbacks at Wilson 's Drug Center - that had been the Wednesday that was almost two weeks ago now , and the new paperbacks always came in on Tuesday .
`` I was actually thinking of you , '' she said , spooning soup into his mouth and then professionally wiping away a dribble , from the comer with a napkin .
`` That 's what makes it such a remarkable coincidence , do n't you see ?
I was hoping Misery 's Child would finally be out in paperback , but no such luck . ''
A storm had been on the way , she said , but until noon that day the weather forecasters had been confidently claiming it would veer south , toward New Mexico and the Sangre di Cristos .
`` Yes , '' he said , remembering as he said it : `` They said it would turn .
That 's why I went in the first place . ''
He tried to shift his legs .
The result was an awful bolt of pain , and he groaned .
`` Do n't do that , '' she said .
`` If you get those legs of yours talking , Paul , they wo n't shut up ... and I ca n't give you any more pills for two hours .
I 'm giving you too much as it is . ''
Why are n't I in the hospital ?
This was clearly the question that wanted asking , but he was n't sure it was a question either of them wanted asked .
Not yet , anyway .
When I got to the feed store , Tony Roberts told me I better step on it if I was going to get back here before the storm hit , and I said - `` '' How far are we from this town ? ''
he asked .
`` A ways , '' she said vaguely , looking off toward the window .
There was a queer interval of silence , and Paul was frightened by what he saw on her face , because what he saw was nothing ; the black nothing of a crevasse folded into an alpine meadow , a blackness where no flowers grew and into which the drop might be long .
It was the face of a woman who has come momentarily untethered from all of the vital positions and landmarks of her life , a woman who has forgotten not only the memory she was in the process of recounting but memory itself .
He had once toured a mental asylum - this was years ago , when he had been researching Misery , the first of the four books which had been his main source of income over the last eight years - and he had seen this look ... or , more precisely , this unlook .
The word which defined it was catatonia , but what frightened him had no such precise word - it was , rather , a vague comparison : in that moment he thought that her thoughts had become much as he had imagined her physical self : solid , fibrous , unchannelled , with no places of hiatus .
Then , slowly , her face cleared .
Thoughts seemed to flow back into it .
Then he realized flowing was just a tiny bit wrong .
She was n't filling up , like a pond or a tidal pool ; she was warming up .
Yes ... she is warming up , like some small electrical gadget .
A toaster , or maybe a heating pad .
`` I said to Tony , `` That storm is going south . '' ''
She spoke slowly at first , almost groggily , but then her words began to catch up to normal cadence and to fill with normal conversational brightness .
But now he was alerted .
Everything she said was a little strange , a little offbeat .
Listening to Annie was like listening to a song played in the wrong key .
`` But he said , `` It changed its mind . ''
`` 'Oh poop ! ''
I said .
`` I better get on my horse and ride . ''
`` `` I 'd stay in town if you can , Miz Wilkes , '' he said .
`` Now they 're saying on the radio that it 's going to be a proper jeezer and nobody is prepared . ''
`` But of course I had to get back - there 's no one to feed the animals but me .
The nearest people are the Roydmans , and they are miles from here .
Besides , the Roydmans do n't like me . ''
She cast an eye shrewdly on him as she said this last , and when he did n't reply she tapped the spoon against the rim of the bowl in peremptory fashion .
`` Done ? ''
`` Yes , I 'm full , thanks .
It was very good .
Do you have a lot of livestock ? ''
Because , he was already thinking , if you do , that means you 've got to have some help .
I stood as still as I could .
I do n't think I moved at all , but suddenly it charged .
Snow plumed underneath its hooves as it came for me .
It was like watching some great machine barreling down .
Too big to be real , too huge to be possible .
I had no weapon .
I turned and ran .
I heard the boar behind me .
Its hooves sliced the frozen ground .
It let out a sound that was almost a scream .
I glanced back ; I could n't help it .
The gown tangled under my feet , and I went down .
I rolled in the snow , fighting to come to my feet , but the gown tangled around my legs .
I could n't get free of it .
Could n't stand .
Could n't run .
The boar was almost on top of me .
Its breath steamed in clouds .
Snow spilled around its legs , bits of frozen black earth sliced up in all that white .
I had one of those interminable moments where you have all the time in the world to watch death come for you .
White boar , white snow , white tusks , all aglow in the moonlight , except for the rich black earth that marred the whiteness with dark scars .
The boar gave that horrible screaming squeal again .
Its thick winter coat looked so soft .
It was going to look soft while it gored me to death and trampled me into the snow .
I reached behind me , feeling for a tree branch , anything to pull myself up out of the snow .
Something brushed my hand , and I grabbed it .
Thorns cut into my hand .
Thorn-covered vines filled the space between the trees .
I used the vines to drag myself to my feet .
The thorns were biting into my hands , my arms , but they were all I could grasp .
The boar was so close , I could smell its scent , sharp and acrid on the cold air .
I would not die lying in the snow .
The thorns bled me , spattered the white gown with blood , the snow covered in minute crimson drops .
The vines moved under my hands like something more alive than a plant .
I felt the boar 's breath like heat on the back of my body , and the thorny vines opened like a door .
The world seemed to spin , and when I could see again , be sure of where I was again , I was standing on the other side of the thorns .
The white boar hit the vines hard and fast , as if it expected to tear its way through .
For a moment I thought it would do just that ; then it was in the thorns , slowing .
It stopped rushing forward and started slashing at the vines with its great snout and tusks .
It would tear them out , trample them underfoot , but its white coat was bedecked with tiny bloody scratches .
It would break through , but the thorns bled it .
I 'd never owned any magic in dream , or vision , that I did n't own in waking life .
But I had magic now .
I wielded the hand of blood .
I put my bleeding hand out toward the boar and thought , Bleed .
I made all those small scratches pour blood .
But still the beast fought through the thorns .
The vines ripped from the earth .
I thought , More .
I made a fist of my hand , and when I opened it wide , the scratches slashed wide .
Hundreds of red mouths , gaping on that white hide .
Blood poured down its sides , and now its squeal was not a scream of anger , or challenge .
It was a squeal of pain .
The vines tightened around it of their own accord .
The boar 's knees buckled , and the vines roped it to the frozen ground .
It was no longer a white boar , but a red one .
Red with blood .
There was a knife in my hand .
It was a shining white blade that glowed like a star .
I knew what I needed to do .
I walked across the blood-spattered snow .
The boar rolled its eyes at me , but I knew that if it could , even now , it would kill me .
I plunged the knife into its throat , and when the blade came out , blood gushed into the snow , over my gown , onto my skin .
The blood was hot .
A crimson fountain of heat and life .
The blood melted the snow down to rich black earth .
From that earth came a tiny piglet , not white this time , but tawny and striped with gold .
It was colored more like a fawn .
The piglet cried , but I knew there would be no answer .
I picked it up , and it curled up in my arms like a puppy .
It was so warm , so alive .
I wrapped the hooded cloak I now wore around us both .
My gown was black now , not black with blood , but simply black .
The piglet settled into the soft warm cloth .
I had boots that were lined with fur , soft and warm .
The white knife was still in my hand , but it was clean , as if the blood had burned away .
I smelled roses .
I turned back and found that the white boar 's body was gone .
The thorny vines were covered in green leaves and flowers .
The flowers were white and pink , from palest blush to dark salmon .
Some of the roses were so deeply pink , they were almost purple .
The wonderful sweet scent of wild roses filled the air .
The dead trees in the circle were dead no more , but began to bud and leaf as I watched .
The thaw spread from the boar 's death and that spill of warm blood .
The tiny piglet was heavier .
I looked down and found that it had doubled in size .
I put it onto the melting snow , and as the boar had gotten bigger , so now this piglet grew .
Again , I could not see the change , but like a flower unfurling undetectably , it changed all the same .
I began to walk over the snow , and the rapidly growing pig came at my side like an obedient dog .
Where we stepped the snow melted , and life returned to the land .
The pig lost its baby stripes , and grew black and as tall at the shoulder as my waist , and still it grew .
I touched its back , and the hair was not soft , but coarse .
I stroked its side , and it nestled against me .
We walked the land , and where we walked , the world became green once more .
We came to the crest of a small hill , where a slab of stone lay grey and cold in the growing light .
Dawn had come , breaking like a crimson wound across the eastern sky .
The sun returns in blood , and dies in blood .
The boar had tusks now , small curling things , but I was n't afraid .
He nuzzled my hand , and his snout was softer , and more nimble , more like a great finger , than any pig 's snout I 'd ever touched .
He made a sound that was pleasant and made me smile .
`` Get up !
Get up , Will Henry , and be quick about it ! ''
he said urgently .
`` We have a caller ! ''
`` A caller ? ''
I murmured in reply .
`` What time is it ? ''
`` A little after one .
Now get dressed and meet me at the back door .
Step lively , Will Henry , and snap to ! ''
He withdrew from my little alcove , taking the light with him .
I dressed in the dark and scampered down the ladder in my stocking feet , putting on the last of my garments , a soft felt hat a size too small for my twelve-year-old head .
That little hat was all I had left from my life before coming to live with him , and so it was precious to me .
When the dust and dirt became intolerable , about every three months or so , he would press a rag and a bucket into my hands and tell me to `` snap to '' before the tide of filth overwhelmed us .
I followed the light into the kitchen , my shoes completely forgotten in my trepidation .
This was not the first nocturnal visitor since my coming to live with him the year before .
The doctor had numerous visits in the wee hours of the morning , more than I cared to remember , and none were cheerful social calls .
His business was dangerous and dark , as I have said , and so , on the whole , were his callers .
The one who called on this night was standing just outside the back door , a gangly , skeletal figure , his shadow rising wraithlike from the glistening cobblestones .
His face was hidden beneath the broad brim of his straw hat , but I could see his gnarled knuckles protruding from his frayed sleeves , and knobby yellow ankles the size of apples below his tattered trousers .
Behind the old man a broken-down nag of a horse stamped and snorted , steam rising from its quivering flanks .
Behind the horse , barely visible in the mist , was the cart with its grotesque cargo , wrapped in several layers of burlap .
The doctor was speaking quietly to the old man as I came to the door , a comforting hand upon his shoulder , for clearly our caller was nearly mad with panic .
He had done the right thing , the doctor was assuring him .
He , the doctor , would take the matter from here .
All would be well .
The poor old soul nodded his large head , which appeared all the larger with its lid of straw as it bobbed on its spindly neck .
`` 'T is a crime .
A bloody crime of nature ! ''
he exclaimed at one point .
`` I should n't have taken it ; I should have covered it back up and left it to the mercy of God ! ''
`` I take no stances on theology , Erasmus , '' said the doctor .
`` I am a scientist .
But is it not said that we are his instruments ?
If that is the case , then God brought you to her and directed you hence to my door . ''
`` So you wo n't report me ? ''
the old man asked , with a sideways glance toward the doctor .
`` Your secret will be as safe with me as I hope mine will be with you .
Ah , here is Will Henry .
Will Henry , where are your shoes ?
No , no , '' he said as I turned to fetch them .
`` I need you to ready the laboratory . ''
`` Yes , doctor , '' I responded dutifully , and turned to go a second time .
`` And put a pot on .
It 's going to be a long night . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' I said .
I turned a third time .
`` And find my boots , Will Henry . ''
`` Of course , sir . ''
I hesitated , waiting for a fourth command .
The old man called Erasmus was staring at me .
`` Well , what are you waiting for ? ''
the doctor said .
`` Snap to , Will Henry ! ''
`` Yes , sir , '' I said .
`` Right away , sir ! ''
I left them in the alley , hearing the old man ask as I hurried across the kitchen , `` He is your boy ? ''
`` He is my assistant , '' came the doctor 's reply .
I set the water on to boil and then went down to the basement .
I lit the lamps , laid out the instruments .
( I was n't sure which he might need , but had a strong suspicion the old man 's delivery was not alive-I had heard no sounds coming from the old cart , and there did n't seem to be great urgency to fetch the cargo inside ... though this may have been more hope than suspicion . )
Then I removed a fresh smock from the closet and rummaged under the stairs for the doctor 's rubber boots .
They were n't there , and for a moment I stood by the examination table in mute panic .
I had washed them the week before and was certain I had placed them under the stairs .
Where were the doctor 's boots ?
From the kitchen came the clumping of the men 's tread across the wooden floor .
He was coming , and I had lost his boots !
I spied the boots just as the doctor and Erasmus began to descend the stairs .
They were beneath the worktable , where I had placed them .
Why had I put them there ?
I set them by the stool and waited , my heart pounding , my breath coming in short , ragged gasps .
The basement was very cold , at least ten degrees colder than the rest of the house , and stayed that way year round .
The load , still wrapped tightly in burlap , must have been heavy : The muscles in the men 's necks bulged with the effort , and their descent was painfully slow .
Once the old man cried for a halt .
They paused five steps from the bottom , and I could see the doctor was annoyed at this delay .
He was anxious to unveil his new prize .
They eventually heaved their burden onto the examining table .
The doctor guided the old man to the stool .
Erasmus sank down upon it , removed his straw hat , and wiped his crinkled brow with a filthy rag .
He was shaking badly .
In the light I could see that nearly all of him was filthy , from his mud-encrusted shoes to his broken fingernails to the fine lines and crevasses of his ancient face .
I could smell the rich , loamy aroma of damp earth rising from him .
`` A crime , '' he murmured .
`` A crime ! ''
`` Yes , grave-robbing is a crime , '' said the doctor .
`` A very serious crime , Erasmus .
A thousand-dollar fine and five years ' hard labor . ''
He shrugged into his smock and motioned for his boots .
He leaned against the banister to tug them on .
`` We are coconspirators now .
I must trust you , and you in turn must trust me .
Will Henry , where is my tea ? ''
I raced up the stairs .
Below , the old man was saying , `` I have a family to feed .
My wife , she 's very ill ; she needs medicine .
I ca n't find work , and what use is gold and jewels to the dead ? ''
They had left the back door ajar .
I swung it closed and threw the bolt , but not until I checked the alley .
I saw nothing but the fog , which had grown thicker , and the horse , its face dominated by its large eyes that seemed to implore me for help .
But he passed his last physical with flying colors . ''
`` Did you ever find ... Was there any indication of ... maybe something odd about his ... Can you tell me if you ever took a blood sample ? ''
`` Of course .
It was part of the physical . ''
`` And did you ever find anything ...
unusual ? ''
The doctor cocked his head quizzically , and I had the impression he was fighting back a smile .
`` As in ? ''
I cleared my throat .
Spoken aloud , the idea seemed even more ridiculous .
`` In the journals , Will Henry talks about being , uh , infected by some kind of parasite when he was around eleven or twelve .
An invertebrate like a tapeworm , only much smaller , that somehow gives people unnaturally long life . ''
The doctor was nodding .
For a split second I misinterpreted the nod as an assent , an indication that he had heard of such a symbiotic creature .
And , if that portion of Will Henry 's fantastic life story were true , what else might be ?
Could it be that there was such a discipline as monstrumology practiced in the late nineteenth century by men such as his guardian , the brilliant and enigmatic Pellinore Warthrop ?
Was it possible that I had in my possession not a work of fiction but a memoir of a truly extraordinary life that spanned more than a century ?
The central question , the thing that woke me in the dead of night shivering in a cold sweat , the notion that haunted me as I fought to go back to sleep ... Could monsters be real ?
My hope-if what I was feeling could be called that-was short-lived .
The doctor 's nod was not to signify recognition ; it was his way of being polite .
`` Would n't that be nice ? ''
he asked rhetorically .
`` But no , his blood was perfectly normal .
A bit high on the bad cholesterol .
Other than that ... '' He shrugged .
`` What about a CT scan or an MRI ? ''
`` What about them ? ''
`` Did you ever give him one ? ''
`` The state wo n't fund unnecessary procedures in a case like Mr. Henry 's .
My job was to make his last days as comfortable as possible , and that 's what I did .
Do you mind if I ask you a question ?
Where are you going with this ? ''
`` You mean why does it matter ? ''
`` Yes .
Why ? ''
`` I 'm not sure .
I guess part of it is the mystery .
Who was this guy ?
Where did he come from , and how did he end up in that culvert ?
And why did he write that journal or novel or whatever it is ?
I guess the main reason , though , has to do with a promise I made . ''
`` To Will Henry ? ''
I hesitated .
`` I was talking about the director .
He gave me the journals and asked me to read them , to see if there might be clues that will help us find his relatives .
Somewhere there must be someone who knew him before he came here .
Everyone has someone . ''
The doctor was smiling .
He got it .
`` And for now you 're the only someone he has . ''
I dropped the notes of my interviews with the reader and the doctor into the ever-expanding file I was keeping on Will Henry , and then I dropped the file into a drawer with yet another promise to myself that I was n't going to obsess ; I would work on it as my schedule permitted .
I had a deadline on a book , familial obligations , worries of my own .
The old leather-bound books with their cracked hides and yellowing pages remained undisturbed in a stack beside my desk .
I was publishing the first three under the title of The Monstrumologist the following year in the hopes that some reader somewhere might recognize something familiar in them .
It was a long shot .
For legal reasons the notebooks would have to be presented as fiction .
Even if someone recognized the name of William James Henry , it would be taken as a coincidence , but something in his tale might spark a memory ; perhaps he had thrilled his children or grandchildren with the story of the bizarre and horrifying creatures called Anthropophagi .
He had obviously been an educated man .
Perhaps at some point in the distant past he had even published something , maybe not under his own name-if , that is , William James Henry was his name .
After he 'd been discovered in the drainage ditch , the police had run his fingerprints .
The person claiming to be William James Henry had never been arrested , had never served in the military , and had never held any job where registering his fingertips was required by law .
I thought , if those first three notebooks were a work of fiction-and , given the subject matter , they would have to be-then the author , in his demented state , might have come to identify so closely with his protagonist that he became Will Henry .
Odder things have happened to flaky writers .
I had spent the entire summer trolling the Internet , making calls , interviewing everyone I could think of who might have that one special nugget of information , that heretofore undiscovered key that would unlock the truth from the stubborn confines of the past .
Late in September , while I sat at my desk suffering from yet another severe case of writer 's block , my eye wandered to the journals .
Impulsively I pulled out the fourth volume and flipped it open to a random page .
To my astonishment , a newspaper clipping slipped onto the desktop .
* My heart racing with excitement , I thumbed through the entire volume , finding other scraps of paper tucked between the pages , as if the journal had served a dual purpose as Will Henry 's diary and as his scrapbook .
Over the next three days I found more memorabilia tucked between the pages of the remaining journals .
I began a new file , which I labeled `` Cuttings , '' organized by their location in the journals ( in other words , by volume and page number ) , with notes outlining possible avenues for more research .
While I can vouch for the authenticity of some of them ( the New York Times articles , for example ) , others , like the calling card of Abram von Helrung , have yet to be fully vetted .
I can not say with 100 percent certainty that they are not forgeries or part of some very weird creative exercise on the part of the journals ' author .
R.Y .
Gainesville , Florida September 2009 * Reproduced in the front matter of this book .
`` Logic sometimes breeds monsters . ''
-Henri Poincare FOLIO IV Desolation '' FOR THE PANIC OF THE WILDERNESS HAD CALLED TO HIM IN THAT FAR VOICE-THE POWER OF UNTAMED DISTANCE-THE ENTICEMENT OF THE DESOLATION THAT DESTROYS . ''
-ALGERNON BLACKWOOD ONE '' What Am I , Will Henry ? ''
I do not wish to remember these things .
I wish to be rid of them , to be rid of him .
I set down the pen nearly a year ago , swearing I would never pick it up again .
Let it die with me , I thought .
I am an old man .
I owe the future nothing .
Soon I will fall asleep and I will wake from this terrible dream .
The endless night will fall , and I will rise .
I long for that night .
I do not fear it .
I have had my fill of fear .
I have stared too long into the abyss , and now the abyss stares back at me .
Between the sleeping and the waking , it is there .
Between the rising and the resting , it is there .
It is always there .
It gnaws my heart .
It chews my soul .
I turn aside and see it .
I stop my ears and hear it .
I cover myself and feel it .
There are no human words for what I mean .
It is the language of the bare bough and the cold stone , pronounced in the fell wind 's sullen whisper and the metronomic drip-drip of the rain .
It is the song the falling snow sings and the discordant clamor of sunlight ripped apart by the canopy and miserly filtered down .
I asked .
She shook her head .
`` They never had any .
And Dad said they never met any of Will 's relatives .
He was a total mystery-man .
No one was even sure what he did for a living . ''
`` I guess you know what I 'm going to ask next . ''
She laughed brightly .
It sounded oddly tinny in the setting .
`` Did he ever talk about working for a monster hunter when he was younger ?
He didn't-at least in none of the stories I 've heard .
The problem is , anyone who might have heard a story like that is dead now . ''
We were silent for a moment .
I had a thousand questions and could n't get a grip on a single one of them .
`` So their house burns down and Will disappears , never to be heard from again , '' I finally said .
`` That would be-when ?
Two years after she died , so 1952 ? ''
She was nodding .
`` Around that time , yes . ''
`` And fifty-five years later he turns up again in a drainage ditch a thousand miles away . ''
`` Well , '' she said with a smile .
`` I never said I had all the answers . ''
I looked at the gravestone .
`` She was all he had , '' I said .
`` And maybe when she died he went a little crazy and burned down the house and lived on the streets for the next five decades ? ''
I laughed ruefully and shook my head .
`` It 's weird .
I 'm closer to the truth now than I 've ever been , and it feels like I 'm farther away . ''
`` At least you know was telling the truth about her , '' she tried to comfort me .
`` There really was a Lilly Bates who was around thirteen years old in 1888 .
And there really was a man named William James Henry . ''
`` Right .
And everything else he writes about could still be a product of his imagination . ''
`` You sound disappointed .
Do you want monsters to be real ? ''
`` I do n't know what I want anymore , '' I confessed .
`` What else can you tell me about Lilly ?
Besides Reggie , were there any other brothers or sisters ? ''
`` Not that I know of .
I know she grew up in New York .
The family was pretty well off .
Her father-my great-great-grandfather-was a big-time financier , right up there with the Vanderbilts . ''
`` Do n't tell me .
After she died and the house burned down , they found her bank accounts cleaned out . ''
`` No .
They had n't been touched . ''
`` Some gold-digger Will was .
You 'd think the family might have changed its mind about him . ''
`` It was too late , '' she replied .
`` Aunt Lilly was dead , and Will Henry was gone . ''
That was it , I thought on the plane ride back to Florida .
The thing I wanted .
I knew monsters were not real , and was fairly certain there had been no serious scientists called monstrumologists who chased after them .
It was n't about the journals , though I had to admit they fascinated me ; it was the why behind the what .
It was Will Henry himself .
I went back to the journals .
Monsters might not be real , but Lilly Bates had been .
Buried in the folios were clues that might lead me to Will Henry , to the why I was so desperate to understand .
Sprinkled in those pages were verifiable facts , a jigsaw puzzle of the real intermingled with the bizarre .
His life-and this strange record of it-demanded an explanation , and I was more determined than ever to discover what it was .
We are hunters all .
We are , all of us , monstrumologists , Will Henry writes in the transcript that follows .
I can say that he 's absolutely right , at least in my case .
And the monster I hunt is not unlike the creature that almost destroyed him and his master .
Pellinore Warthrop had his grail-and I have mine .
R. Y. Gainesville , FL April 2011 Folio VII : Objet Trouve Fig .
37 It is no longer possible to escape men .
Farewell to the monsters , Farewell to the saints .
Farewell to pride .
All that is left is men .
-Jean-Paul Sartre Chapter One : `` A Very Dangerous Poison '' After several years of service to the monstrumologist , I approached him with the idea of recording , in the interest of posterity , one or two of his more memorable case studies .
I waited , of course , until he was in one of his better moods .
Approaching Pellinore Warthrop while he wallowed in one of his frequent bouts of melancholia could be hazardous to one 's physical well-being .
Once , when I made that ill-advised approach , he hurled a volume of Shakespeare 's tragedies at my head .
The moment presented itself at the delivery of the day 's mail , which included a letter from President McKinley , thanking Warthrop for his service to the country upon the satisfactory conclusion of `` that peculiar incident in the Adirondacks . ''
The doctor , whose ego was as robust as any of Mr. P. T. Barnum 's sideshow strong men , read it aloud three times before entrusting it to my care .
I was his file clerk , among other things-or , I should say , as well as every other thing .
Nothing outside his work could brighten the monstrumologist 's mood more than a brush with celebrity .
It seemed to satisfy some deep yearning in him .
Beyond elevating his moribund spirits and thus ensuring-momentarily , at least-my physical safety , the letter also provided the perfect entree for my suggestion .
`` It was quite peculiar , was n't it ? ''
I asked .
`` Hmmm ?
Yes , I suppose . ''
The monstrumologist was absorbed in the latest issue of the Saturday Evening Post , which had also arrived that day .
`` It would make quite a tale , if someone were to tell it , '' I ventured .
`` I have been thinking of preparing a small piece for the Journal , '' replied he .
The Journal of the Society for the Advancement of the Science of Monstrumology was the official quarterly of the Society .
`` I was thinking of something for more widespread consumption .
A story for the Post , for example . ''
`` An interesting idea , Will Henry , '' he said .
`` But wholly impractical .
I made a promise to the president that the matter would remain strictly confidential , and I 've no doubt that , if I should break my vow , I might find myself locked up in Fort Leavenworth , not exactly the ideal place to pursue my studies . ''
`` But if you published something in the Journal ... '' '' Oh , who reads that ? ''
he snorted , waving his hand dismissively .
`` It is the nature of my profession , Will Henry , to labor in obscurity .
I avoid the press for a very good reason , to protect the public and to protect my work .
Imagine what the publication of that affair would do-the firestorm of panic and recriminations .
Why , half the state of New York would empty out , and the rest would appear on my doorstep to hang me from nearest tree . ''
`` Some might say your actions were nothing short of heroic , '' I countered .
Worms spilling from my father 's bleeding eyes , boiling from his bleeding boils .
`` No .
And yes .
Would you like to see ? ''
No .
And yes .
THREE When he spoke of it , and that was not often , he called it my `` peculiar blessing . ''
His chief piece of advice was this : Never fall in love , Will Henry .
Never .
Love , marriage , family , all would be disastrous .
The organism that lives within you , if the population remains stable and you do not suffer the fate of your father , will grant you unnaturally long life , long enough to see your children 's children pass into oblivion .
Everyone you come to love is doomed to die before you .
They will go , and you will go on .
I took his advice to heart-for a little while , at least-until my heart betrayed me , as the heart will do .
I still carry her picture , the one she gave me when I left her to follow the monstrumologist to the Isle of Blood .
For luck , she had said .
And for when you are lonely .
It 's cracked and faded now , but over the years I have stared at it so many times that her face is indelibly stamped into my memory .
I do not need to look at her to see her .
Three years passed between the day she gave it to me and the evening when I saw her again .
Three years : an eternity in the life of a sixteen-year-old .
A blink of an eye for a resident of Judecca , trapped in the infernal ice .
`` I have determined that this will be my last pre-congress soiree , '' Warthrop remarked on that night , raising his voice to be heard over the music .
The band was not very good-it never was-but the food was abundant , and , to add to its irresistibility ( for the doctor , at least ) , entirely free .
He displayed a truly monstrous appetite when not on a case ; like a wild animal Warthrop tended to gorge in preparation for leaner times .
At the moment he was polishing off a platter of oysters , melted butter dripping from his freshly shaven ( by me ) chin .
He waited for me to ask why and , when I declined , went on : `` A roomful of dancing scientists !
It would be humorous if it were n't so painful to watch . ''
`` I rather enjoy it , '' I said .
`` It 's the one evening of the year when monstrumologists actually bathe . ''
`` Ha !
Well , you do n't act as if you are enjoying it , glowering in this corner as if you 've lost your best friend . ''
Crinoline skirts trailed across the gleaming boards , hiding the delicate toes stepping quickly to avoid being squashed by the clumsy feet of dancing scientists .
`` Though I beg you to hold your temper in check until ten forty . ''
He checked his pocket watch .
Warthrop had not won the pool in more than sixteen years-longer than I 'd been alive-and clearly hoped his time had come .
So desperate was he to win , I think , that cheating was not out of the question .
Starting the fight himself would disqualify him from the pool , but there was nothing in the rules to prevent his faithful assistant from throwing the first punch .
The lights sparking in the chandelier .
The clinking of silver against porcelain .
The red curtains and florid necks above stiff white collars and bare shoulders gleaming golden-skinned and bouquets in crystal vases and everywhere the scent of possibility , of unfulfilled promises and the way a woman 's hair falls against her back .
`` I have no temper to check , '' I protested .
Warthrop would have none of it .
`` You may be indecipherable to most , but not to me , Mr. Henry !
You noticed her from the moment you walked through the door and have n't taken your eyes off her since . ''
I looked him squarely in the eye and said , `` That is n't true . ''
He shrugged .
`` As you wish . ''
`` I was a bit taken aback , that 's all .
I thought she was in Europe . ''
`` I was mistaken .
Forgive me . ''
`` She is a very annoying person and I do n't like her . ''
`` More trouble than she 's worth , I agree . ''
He tipped back his head to down another oyster , his sixth .
`` Writing you long letters while she 's been away , each one requiring your response , taking up time better spent on your duties to me .
I have nothing against women in general , but they can be quite ... '' Searching for the word .
`` Time-consuming . ''
She wore a purple gown with a matching ribbon in her hair , which she had let grow while she was away ; it cascaded down her back in a waterfall of corkscrew curls .
She was taller , thinner , a chubby little girl no longer .
The sun has risen , I thought , rather incoherently .
`` It is the ancient call , '' he murmured beside me .
`` The overarching imperative .
And we alone have the ability to recognize it .
And , by recognizing it , we can control it . ''
`` I have no idea what you 're talking about , '' I said .
`` I am speaking as a student of biology . ''
`` Do you ever speak as anything else ? ''
I asked crossly .
I grabbed a glass of champagne from the tray of a passing waiter : my fourth .
Warthrop shook his head .
He never partook of spirits and considered those who did mentally , if not morally , weak .
`` Not any longer . ''
He smiled wanly .
`` But I was a poet once , as you may recall .
Do you know the difference between science and art , Will ? ''
`` I am not as experienced as you in either , '' I responded .
`` But my sense is you can not reduce love to a biological necessity .
It cheapens the one and demeans the other . ''
`` Love , did you say ? ''
He seemed astonished .
`` I am speaking in the abstract .
I do not love Lilly Bates . ''
`` Well , it would be rather extraordinary if you did . ''
Turning , turning , under the glittering chandeliers .
He is n't a bad dancer , her partner .
He does not watch his own feet ; his eyes are upon her upturned face ; and her face follows the turn of her bare shoulders as he spins her lightly over the floor .
Dear Will , I pray this finds you well .
`` Why ? ''
I asked the monstrumologist .
`` And what business is it of yours ? ''
With dark eyes glittering : `` As long as you are in my care , it is entirely my business .
You must trust me in this .
There is no light at the end of that particular tunnel , Will Henry . ''
I stared back at him for a long moment , and then snorted , and the edge of the glass was cold against my bottom lip .
`` You would be the first to tell me not to take lessons from failure . ''
He stiffened and replied , `` I did not fail in love .
Love failed in me . ''
What nonsense !
I thought .
The complaining was just a way to explain why she was always lookin for a shortcut . ''
`` And you mean her husband did n't mind her traipsing down every wood-road in tarnation between here and Bangor just so she could see if it was nine-tenths of a mile shorter ? '
`` He did n't care piss-all , '' Homer said shortly , and got up , and went in the store .
There now , Owens , I told myself , you know it ai n't safe to ast him questions when he 's yarning , and you went right ahead and ast one , and you have buggered a story that was starting to shape up promising .
I sat there and turned my face up into the sun and after about ten minutes he come out with a boiled egg and sat down .
He ate her and I took care not to say nothing and the water on Castle Lake sparkled as blue as something as might be told of in a story about treasure .
When Homer had finished his egg and had a sip of mineral water , he went on .
I was surprised , but still said nothing .
It would n't have been wise .
`` They had two or three different chunks of rolling iron , '' he said .
`` There was the Cadillac , and his truck , and her little Mercedes go-devil .
A couple of winters he left the truck , 'case they wanted to come down and do some skiin .
Mostly when the summer was over he 'd drive the Caddy back up and she 'd take her godevil . ''
I nodded but did n't speak .
In truth , I was afraid to risk another comment .
Later I thought it would have taken a lot of comments to shut Homer Buckland up that day .
He had been wanting to tell the story of Mrs. Todd 's shortcut for a long time .
`` Her little go-devil had a special odometer in it that told you how many miles was in a trip , and every time she set off from Castle Lake to Bangor she 'd set it to 000-point-O and let her clock up to whatever .
She had made a game of it , and she used to chafe me with it . ''
He paused , thinking that back over .
`` No , that ai n't right . ''
He paused more and faint lines showed up on his forehead like steps on a library ladder .
`` She made like she made a game of it , but it was a serious business to her .
Serious as anything else , anyway . ''
He flapped a hand and I think he meant the husband .
`` The glovebox of the little go-devil was filled with maps , and there was a few more in the back where there would be a seat in a regular car .
Some was gas station maps , and some was pages that had been pulled from the Rand-McNally Road Atlas ; she had some maps from Appalachian Trail guidebooks and a whole mess of topographical survey-squares , too .
It was n't her having those maps that made me think it wa'n't a game ; it was how she 'd drawed lines on all of them , showing routes she 'd taken or at least tried to take .
`` She 'd been stuck a few times , too , and had to get a pull from some farmer with a tractor and chain .
`` I was there one day laying tile in the bathroom , sitting there with grout squittering out of every damn crack you could see - I dreamed of nothing but squares and cracks that was bleeding grout that night - and she come stood in the doorway and talked to me about it for quite a while .
I used to chafe her about it , but I was also sort of interested , and not just because my brother Franklin used to live down-Bangor and I 'd traveled most of the roads she was telling me of .
I was interested just because a man like me is always uncommon interested in knowing the shortest way , even if he do n't always want to take it .
You that way too ? ''
`` Ayuh , '' I said .
There 's something powerful about knowing the shortest way , even if you take the longer way because you know your mother-in-law is sitting home .
Getting there quick is often for the birds , although no one holding a Massachusetts driver 's license seems to know it .
But knowing how to get there quick - or even knowing how to get there a way that the person sitting beside you do n't know ... that has power .
`` Well , she had them roads like a Boy Scout has his knots , '' Homer said , and smiled his large , sunny grin .
`` She says , 'Wait a minute , wait a minute , ' like a little girl , and I hear her through the wall rummaging through her desk , and then she comes back with a little notebook that looked like she 'd had it a good long time .
Cover was all rumpled , do n't you know , and some of the pages had pulled loose from those little wire rings on one side. ''
The way Worth goes - the way most people go - is Route 97 to Mechanic Falls , then Route 11 to Lewiston , and then the Interstate to Bangor .
156.4 miles . '
`` '' 'If you want to skip the turnpike - and save some distance - you 'd go to Mechanic Falls , Route 11 to Lewiston , Route 202 to Augusta , then up Route 9 through China Lake and Unity and Haven to Bangor .
That 's 144.9 miles . '
`` 'You wo n't save no time that way , missus , ' I says , 'not going through Lewiston and Augusta .
Although I will admit that drive up the Old Derry Road to Bangor is real pretty . '
`` 'Save enough miles and soon enough you 'll save time , ' she says .
'And I did n't say that 's the way I 'd go , although I have a good many times ; I 'm just running down the routes most people use .
Do you want me to go on ? '
`` 'No , ' I says , 'just leave me in this cussed bathroom all by myself starin at all these cussed cracks until I start to rave. ''
'There are four major routes in all , ' she says .
The one by Route 2 is 163.4 miles .
I only tried it once .
Too long . '
`` That 's the one I 'd hosey if my wife called and told me it was leftovers , ' I says , kinda low. ''
'What was that ? '
she says. ''
'Nothin , ' I says .
Talkin to the grout . '
`` 'Oh .
Well , the fourth - and there are n't too many who know about it , although they are all good roads - paved , anyway - is across Speckled Bird Mountain on 219 to 202 beyond Lewiston .
Then , if you take Route 19 , you can get around Augusta .
Then you take the Old Derry Road .
That way is just 129.2 . '
`` I did n't say nothing for a little while and p'raps she thought I was doubting her because she says , a little pert , 'I know it 's hard to believe , but it 's so . '
`` I said I guessed that was about right , and I thought - looking back - it probably was .
Because that 's the way I 'd usually go when I went down to Bangor to see Franklin when he was still alive .
I had n't been that way in years , though .
Do you think a man could just - well - forget a road , Dave ? ''
I allowed it was .
The turnpike is easy to think of .
After a while it almost fills a man 's mind , and you think not how could 1 get from here to there but how can I get from here to the turnpike ramp that 's closest to there .
Roads that have just been forgot except by the people who live on them and think of the quickest way to get off them and onto the turnpike where you can pass on a hill and not fret over it .
We like to joke in Maine that you ca n't get there from here , but maybe the joke is on us .
The truth is there 's about a damn thousand ways to do it and man does n't bother .
Homer continued : `` I grouted tile all afternoon in that hot little bathroom and she stood there in the doorway all that time , one foot crossed behind the other , bare-legged , wearin loafers and a khaki-colored skirt and a sweater that was some darker .
Hair was drawed back in a hosstail .
She must have been thirty-four or five then , but her face was lit up with what she was tellin me and I swan she looked like a sorority girl home from school on vacation .
`` After a while she musta got an idea of how long she 'd been there cuttin the air around her mouth because she says , 'I must be boring the hell out of you , Homer . '
`` 'Yes 'm , ' I says , 'you are .
I druther you went away and left me to talk to this damn grout . '
`` 'Do n't be sma'at , Homer , ' she says. ''
'No , missus , you ai n't borin me , ' I says .
`` So she smiles and then goes back to it , pagin through her little notebook like a salesman checkin his orders .
She had those four main ways - well , really three because she gave up on Route 2 right away - but she must have had forty different other ways that were play-offs on those .
Roads with state numbers , roads without , roads with names , roads without .
My head fair spun with 'em .
And finally she says to me , 'You ready for the blue-ribbon winner , Homer ? '
`` 'I guess so , ' I says. ''
'At least it 's the blue-ribbon winner so far , ' she says .
'Do you know , Homer , that a man wrote an article in Science Today in 1923 proving that no man could run a mile in under four minutes ?
He proved it , with all sorts of calculations based on the maximum length of the male thigh-muscles , maximum length of stride , maximum lung capacity , maximum heart-rate , and a whole lot more .
I was taken with that article !
I was so taken that I gave it to Worth and asked him to give it to Professor Murray in the math department at the University of Maine .
I wanted those figures checked because I was sure they must have been based on the wrong postulates , or something .
Worth probably thought I was being silly - `` Ophelia 's got a bee in her bonnet '' is what he says - but he took them .
Well , Professor Murray checked through the man 's figures quite carefully ... and do you know what , Homer ? '
`` 'No , missus . '
`` Those figures were right .
at me .
Understand ? ''
He nodded .
`` Okay .
When it gets there , you just let her go , Gallagher . ''
Banning frowned down at the watch with the deep seriousness of a mathematician approaching the conclusion of a crucial equation .
He already understood what Grandpa wanted to show him , and he was bright enough to understand the proof was only a formality ... but one that must be shown just the same .
It was a rite , like not being able to leave church until the minister said the benediction , even though all the songs on the board had been sung and the sermon was finally , mercifully , over .
When the second hand stood straight up at twelve on its own separate little dial ( Mine , he marveled .
That 's my second hand on my watch ) , he hollered `` Go ! ''
at the top of his lungs , and Grandpa began to count with the greasy speed of an auctioneer selling dubious goods , trying to get rid of them at top prices before his hypnotized audience could wake up and realize it was not just bilked but outraged , had been somehow induced to purchase sham for specie .
`` One-two-thre ' fo'-fi'six-sev ' neight-nine-ten'leven , '' Grandpa chanted , the gnarly blotches on his cheeks and the big purple veins on his nose beginning to stand out again in his excitement .
He finished in a triumphant hoarse shout : `` Fiffynine-sixxy ' ! ''
As he said this last , the second hand of the pocket watch was just crossing the seventh dark line , marking thirtyfive seconds .
`` How long ? ''
Grandpa asked , panting and rubbing at his chest with his hand .
Banning told him , looking at Grandpa with undisguised admiration .
`` That was fast counting , Grandpa ! ''
Banning nodded slowly .
He did n't understand completely , but he felt the shadow of understanding , like cloud-shadow passing slowly across a meadow .
Grandpa reached into the pouch pocket in the bib of his overalls and brought out a pack of unfiltered Kools .
Apparently Grandpa had n't stopped smoking after all , dickey heart or not .
Still , it seemed to the boy as if maybe Grandpa had cut down drastically , because that pack of Kools looked as if it had done hard traveling ; it had escaped the fate of most packs , torn open after breakfast and tossed empty into the gutter at three , a crushed ball .
Grandpa rummaged , brought out a cigarette almost as bent as the pack from which it had come .
He stuck it in the corner of his mouth , replaced the pack in the bib , and brought out a wooden match which he snapped alight with one practiced flick of his old man 's thick yellow thumbnail .
Banning watched with the fascination of a child watching a magician producing a fan of cards from an empty hand .
The flick of the thumb was always interesting , but the amazing thing was that the match did not go out .
In spite of the high wind which steadily combed this hilltop , Grandpa cupped the small flame with an assurance that could afford to be leisurely .
He lit his smoke and then was actually shaking the match , as if he had negated the wind by simple will .
Banning looked closely at the cigarette and saw no black scorch-marks trailing up the white paper from the glowing tip .
His eyes had not deceived him , then ; Grandpa had taken his light from a straight flame , like a man who takes a light from a candle flame in a closed room .
This was sorcery of some kind .
Grandpa removed the cigarette from his mouth and put his thumb and forefinger in , looking for a moment like a man who means to whistle for his dog .
Instead he brought them out again , wet , and pressed them against the match head .
The boy needed no explanation ; the only thing Grandpa and his friends out here in the country feared more than sudden freezes was fire .
Grandpa dropped the match and ground it under his boot .
Then he saw the boy staring at him and misinterpreted his fascination .
`` I know I ai n't supposed to , '' he said , `` and I ai n't gon na tell you to lie or even ask you to .
If Gramma asks you right out`Was that old man smokin ' up there ?
'-you go on and tell her I did .
I do n't need a kid to lie for me . ''
He did n't smile , but his shrewd , sideslanted eyes made Banning part of a possible conspiracy that seemed amiable and sinless .
`` But then , if Gramma asks me right out if you took the Savior 's name in vain when I gave you that watch , I 'd look her right in the eye and say , `No ma'am .
He said thanks as pretty as could be and that was all that boy done . ''
Now Banning was the one to burst out laughing , and the old man grinned , revealing his few remaining teeth .
`` Of course , if she do n't ask neither of us nothing , I guess we do n't have to volunteer any information , do we , Clivey ?
Does that seem fair ? ''
`` Yes , '' Banning said .
He was n't a good-looking boy then or ever and never became the sort of man women consider handsome , but as he smiled in utter understanding of the balance the old man had struck , he became beautiful for a moment , and Grandpa ruffed his hair .
`` You 're a good boy , Clivey . ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' His grandfather stood ruminating , his Kool burning with unnatural rapidity ( the tobacco was dry , and although he puffed seldom , the greedy hilltop wind smoked the cigarette ceaselessly ) , and Banning thought the old man had said everything he had to say .
He was sorry .
He loved to hear Grandpa talk .
The things Grandpa said continually amazed him because , while he did n't understand all of them , he understood more of what Grandpa said than what all the other adults he knew said when you added them together .
His mother , his father , Gramma , Uncle Don-they all said things he was supposed to take to heart , but they rarely made sense to him .
Handsome is as handsome does , for instance-what did that mean ?
He had a sister , Patty , who was nine years older .
He understood most of what she said but did n't care because most of what she said out loud was stupid .
The rest was communicated in vicious little pinches .
The worst of these she called `` Peter-Pinches . ''
She told him that , if he ever told about the PeterPinches , she 'd turn him into toe jam .
Looking at her thin grim face the difference between Banning and his sister was that , while Banning was not handsome , his sister was unlovely-he knew she would .
She was unlovely but far from stupid .
`` I do n't want dates , '' she had announced at supper one night .
Banning had peeked in at her once and had seen her standing naked and motionless in front of her mirror .
Although large tears were rolling down a face already poxed with pimples , she did n't make a sound .
`` I think boys are dumb and I do n't want dates . ''
She 's getting ready for never being asked , Banning thought .
`` You 'll change your mind about that , Punkin , '' Dad said , chewing roast beef and not looking up from the book beside his plate .
Mom had given up trying to get him to stop reading at the table .
`` No I wo n't , '' Patty said , and Banning knew she would n't .
When Patty said things she most always meant them , and that was something Banning understood that his parents did n't .
He was n't sure she meant it -- -you know , really -- -about killing him if he tattled on her about the Peter-Pinches , but he was n't going to take chances .
Even if she did n't actually kill him , she would find some spectacular yet untraceable way to hurt him , that was for sure .
Besides , sometimes the Peter-Pinches were n't really pinches at all ; they were more like the way Patty sometimes stroked her little half-breed poodle , Brandy , and he knew she was doing it because he was bad , but he had a secret he certainly did not intend to tell her : these other PeterPinches , the stroking ones , actually felt good .
When Grandpa opened his mouth , Banning thought he would say Time to go back t ' the house , Clivey , but instead he told the boy : `` I 'm going to tell you something , if you want to hear it .
Wo n't take long .
You want to hear , Clivey ? ''
`` Yes sir ! ''
`` You really do , do n't you ? ''
Grandpa said in a bemused voice .
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Sometimes I think I ought to keep you around , Clivey .
Just steal you away from your folks and keep you forever .
Sometimes I think if I had you on hand most the time , I 'd live forever , goddam buck-fever ticker or not . ''
He removed the Kool from his mouth , dropped it to the ground , and stamped it to death under one workboot , revolving the heel back and forth , back and forth ... and then covering the butt with the dirt his heel had loosened just to be sure .
When he looked up at Banning again , it was with eyes that gleamed .
`` Been thirty years or more since I gave any .
I stopped when I noticed only fools gave it and only fools took it .
Instruction , now ... instruction 's a different thing .
A smart man will give a little from time to time , and a smart man takes a little from time to time .
That goes for little boys as well , I think . ''
Banning said nothing , only looked at his grandfather with close concentration .
`` There are two kinds of time , '' Grandpa said , `` and while both of them are real , only one is really real .
You want to make sure you know them both and can always tell them apart .
Do you understand that ? ''
`` No , sir . ''
Grandpa nodded .
`` If you 'd said `Yes , sir , ' I would have swatted the seat of your pants and taken you back to the farm . ''
Banning looked down at the smeared results of Grandpa 's cigarette , face hot with blush , proud .
`` I do n't know , '' she said , and reached for the Princess phone on the endtable .
She had to move Squeebles the cat , the TV Guide , and a quart of Diet Coke to get it .
`` But it sounds sneaky . ''
`` Mom , what does Needful Things mean ?
Is it like `` Do n't bother me now , Brian , Mummy 's busy .
There are Devil Dogs in the breadbox if you want one .
just one , though , or you 'll spoil your supper . ''
She was already dialling Myra , and they were soon discussing the green awning with great enthusiasm .
Brian , who did n't want a Devil Dog ( he loved his Ma a great deal , but sometimes watching her eat took away his appetite ) , sat down at the kitchen table , opened his math book , and started to do the assigned problems-he was a bright , conscientious boy , and his math was the only homework he had n't finished at school .
As he methodically moved decimal points and then divided , he listened to his mother 's end of the conversation .
She was again telling Myra that soon they would have another store selling stinky old perfume bottles and pictures of someone 's dead relatives , and it was really a shame the way these things came and went .
There were just too many people out there , Cora said , whose motto in life was take the money and run .
When she spoke of the awning , she sounded as if someone had deliberately set out to offend her , and had succeeded splendidly at the task .
I think she thinks someone was supposed to tell her , Brian had thought as his pencil moved sturdily along , carrying down and rounding off .
Yeah , that was it .
She was curious , that was number one .
And she was pissed off , that was number two .
The combination was just about killing her .
Well , she would find out soon enough .
When she did , maybe she would let him in on the big secret .
And if she was too busy , he could get it just by listening in on one of her afternoon conversations with Myra .
But as it turned out , Brian found out quite a lot about Needful Things before his mother or Myra or anyone else in Castle Rock .
2 He hardly rode his bike at all on his way home from school on the afternoon before Needful Things was scheduled to open ; he was lost in a warm daydream ( which would not have passed his lips had he been coaxed with hot coals or bristly tarantula spiders ) where he asked Miss Ratcliffe to go with him to the Castle County Fair and she agreed .
`` Thank you , Brian , '' Miss Ratcliffe says , and Brian sees little tears of gratitude in the corners of her blue eyes-eyes so dark in color that they look almost stormy .
`` I 've been ... well , very sad lately .
You see , I 've lost my love . ''
`` I 'll help you forget him , '' Brian says , his voice tough and tender at the same time , `` if you 'll call me ... Bri .
`` Thank you , '' she whispers , and then , leaning close enough so he can smell her perfume-a dreamy scent of wildflowers-she says , `` Thank you ... Bri .
And since , for tonight at least , we will he girl and boy instead of teacher and student , you may call me ... Sally .
`` He takes her hands .
Looks into her eyes .
`` I 'm not just a kid , '' he says .
`` I can help you forget him ... Sally .
`` She seems almost hypnotized by this unexpected understanding , this unexpected manliness ; he may only he eleven , she thinks , but he is more of a man than Lester ever was !
Her hands tighten on his .
Their faces draw closer ... closer .
`` No , '' she murmurs , and now her eyes are so wide and so close that he seems almost to drown in them , `` you must n't , Bri ... it 's wrong ... '' It 's right , baby , '' he says , and presses his lips to hers .
She draws away after a few moments and whispers tenderly `` Hey , kid , watch out where the fuck you 're goin ! ''
jerked out of his daydream , Brian saw that he had just walked in front of Hugh Priest 's pick-up truck .
`` Sorry , Mr .
Priest , '' he said , blushing madly .
Hugh Priest was nobody to get mad at you .
He worked for the Public Works Department and was reputed to have the worst temper in Castle Rock .
Brian watched him narrowly .
If he started to get out of his truck , Brian planned to jump on his bike and be gone down Main Street at roughly the speed of light .
He had no interest in spending the next month or so in the hospital just because he 'd been daydreaming about going to the County Fair with Miss Ratcliffe .
But Hugh Priest had a bottle of beer in the fork of his legs , Hank Williams , jr was on the radio singing `` High and Pressurized , '' and it was all just a little too comfy for anything so radical as beating the shit out of a little kid on Tuesday afternoon .
`` You want to keep your eyes open , '' he said , taking a pull from the neck of his bottle and looking at Brian balefully , `` because next time I wo n't bother to stop .
I 'll just run you down in the road .
Make you squeak , little buddy . ''
He put the truck in gear and drove off .
Brian felt an insane ( and mercifully brief ) urge to scream Well I 'll be butched !
after him .
He waited until the orange road-crew truck had turned off onto Linden Street and then went on his way .
The daydream about Miss Ratcliffe , alas , was spoiled for the day .
Hugh Priest had let in reality again .
Miss Ratcliffe had n't had a fight with her fiance , Lester Pratt ; she was still wearing her small diamond engagement ring and was still driving his blue Mustang while she waited for her own car to come back from the shop .
Brian had seen Miss Ratcliffe and Mr. Pratt only last evening , stapling those DICE AND THE DEVIL posters to the telephone poles on Lower Main Street along with a bunch of other people .
They had been singing hymns .
The only thing was , the Catholics went around as soon as they were done and took them down again .
It was pretty funny in a way ... but if he had been bigger , Brian would have tried his best to protect any posters Miss Ratcliffe put up with her hallowed hands .
Brian thought of her dark blue eyes , her long dancer 's legs , and felt the same glum amazement he always felt when he realized that , come January , she intended to change Sally Ratcliffe , which was lovely , to Sally Pratt , which sounded to Brian like a fat lady falling down a short hard flight of stairs .
Well , he thought , fetching the other curb and starting slowly down Main Street , maybe she 'll change her mind .
It 's not impossible .
Or maybe Lester Pratt will get in a car accident or come down with a brain tumor or something like that .
It might even turn out that he 's a dope addict .
Miss Ratcliffe would never marry a dope addict .
Such thoughts offered Brian a bizarre sort of comfort , but they did not change the fact that Hugh Priest had aborted the daydream just short of its apogee ( kissing Miss Ratcliffe and actually touching her right breast while they were in the Tunnel of Love at the fair ) .
It was a pretty wild idea anyway , an eleven-year-old kid taking a teacher to the County Fair .
Miss Ratcliffe was pretty , but she was also old .
She had told the speech kids once that she would be twenty-four in November .
So Brian carefully re-folded his daydream along its creases , as a man will carefully fold a well-read and much-valued document , and tucked it on the shelf at the back of his mind where it belonged .
He prepared to mount his bike and pedal the rest of the way home .
But he was passing the new shop at just that moment , and the sign in the doorway caught his eye .
Something about it had changed .
He stopped his bike and looked at it .
GRAND OPENING OCTOBER 9TH-BRING YOUR FRIENDS !
at the top was gone .
It had been replaced by a small square sign , red letters on a white background .
OPEN it said , and OPEN was all it said .
Brian stood with his bike between his legs , looking at this , and his heart began to beat a little faster .
You 're not going in there , are you ?
he asked himself .
I mean , if it really is opening a day early , you 're not going in there , right ?
Why not ?
he answered himself .
Well ... because the window 's still soaped over .
The shade on the door 's still drawn .
You go in there , anything could happen to you .
Anything .
Sure .
Like the guy who runs it is Norman Bates or something , he dresses up in his mother 's clothes and stabs his customers .
Right .
Well , forget it , the timid part of his mind said , although that part sounded as if it already knew it had lost .
There 's something funny about it .
But then Brian thought of telling his mother .
just saying nonchalantly , `` By the way , Ma , you know that new store , Needful Things ?
Well , it opened a day early .
I went in and took a look around . ''
She 'd push the mute button on the remote control in a hurry then , you better believe it !
But looking at her made me feel something .
You can laugh , but you would n't have if you 'd seen her .
She was almost unbearably beautiful .
I knew without a doubt that everybody else in Joe 's knew that the same as me .
Just like I knew she had been getting The Eye before I came in .
She had coal-colored hair , so black that it seemed nearly blue under the fluorescents .
It fell freely over the shoulders of her scuffed tan coat .
Her skin was cream-white , with just the faintest blooded touch lingering beneath the skin -- the cold she had brought in with her .
Dark , sooty lashes .
Solemn eyes that slanted up the tiniest bit at the corners .
A full and mobile mouth below a straight , patrician nose .
I could n't tell what her body looked like .
I did n't care .
You would n't , either .
All she needed was that face , that hair , that look .
She was exquisite .
That 's the only word we have for her in English .
Nona .
I sat two stools down from her , and the short-order cook came over and looked at me .
`` What ? ''
`` Black coffee , please . ''
He went to get it .
From behind me someone said : `` Well I guess Christ came back , just like my mamma always said He would . ''
The gawky dishwasher laughed , a quick yuk-yuk sound .
The truckers at the counter joined in .
The short-order cook brought me my coffee back , jarred it down on the counter and spilled some on the thawing meat of my hand .
I jerked it back .
`` Sorry , '' he said indifferently .
`` He 's gon na heal it hisself , '' one of the truckers in the booth called over .
The blue-rinse twins paid their checks and hurried out .
One of the knights of the road sauntered over to the juke and put another dime in .
Johnny Cash began to sing `` A Boy Named Sue . ''
I blew on my coffee .
Someone tugged at my sleeve .
I turned my head and there she was -- she 'd moved over to the empty stool .
Looking at that face close up was almost blinding .
I spilled some more of my coffee .
`` I 'm sorry . ''
Her voice was low , almost atonal .
`` My fault .
I ca n't feel what I 'm doing yet . ''
`` I -- `` She stopped , seemingly at a loss .
I suddenly realized that she was scared .
I felt my first reaction to her swim over me again -- to protect her and take care of her , make her not afraid .
`` I need a ride , '' she finished in a rush .
`` I did n't dare ask any of them . ''
She made a barely perceptible gesture toward the truckers in the booth .
How can I make you understand that I would have given anything -- anything -- to be able to tell her , Sure , finish your coffee , I 'm parked right outside .
It sounds crazy to say I felt that way after half a dozen words out of her mouth , and the same number out of mine , but I did .
Looking at her was like looking at the Mona Lisa or the Venus de Milo come to breathing life .
And there was another feeling .
It was as if a sudden , powerful light had been turned on in the confused darkness of my mind .
It would make it easier if I could say she was a pickup and I was a fast man with the ladies , quick with a funny line and lots of patter , but she was n't and I was n't .
All I knew was I did n't have what she needed and it tore me up .
`` I 'm thumbing , '' I told her .
`` A cop kicked me off the interstate and I only came here to get out of the cold .
I 'm sorry . ''
`` Are you from the university ? ''
`` I was .
I quit before they could fire me . ''
`` No home to go to .
I was a state ward .
I got to school on a scholarship .
I blew it .
Now I do n't know where I 'm going . ''
My life story in five sentences .
I guess it made me feel depressed .
She laughed -- the sound made me run hot and cold .
`` We 're cats out of the same bag , I guess . ''
I thought she said cats .
I thought so .
Then .
But I 've had time to think , in here , and more and more it seems to me that she might have said rats .
Rats out of the same bag .
Yes .
And they are not the same , are they ?
I was about to make my best conversational shot -- something witty like `` Is that so ? ''
-- when a hand came down on my shoulder .
I turned around .
It was one of the truckers from the booth .
He had blond stubble on his chin and there was a wooden kitchen match poking out of his mouth .
He smelled of engine oil and looked like something out of a Steve Ditko drawing .
`` I think you 're done with that coffee , '' he said .
His lips parted around the match in a grin .
He had a lot of very white teeth .
`` What ? ''
`` You stinking the place up , fella .
You are a fella , are n't you ?
Kind of hard to tell . ''
`` You are n't any rose yourself , '' I said .
`` What 's that after-shave , handsome ?
Eau de Crankcase ? ''
He gave me a hard shot across the side of the face with his open hand .
I saw little black dots .
`` Do n't fight in here , '' the short-order cook said .
`` If you 're going to scramble him , do it outside . ''
`` Come on , you goddammed commie , '' the trucker said .
This is the spot where the girl is supposed to say something like `` Unhand him '' or `` You brute . ''
She was n't saying anything .
She was watching both of us with feverish intensity .
The nostrils were half-flared and ugly .
The mouth was a white , twisted line .
I Wrote EAT SHIT On the wall until the pen suddenly snapped in my straining fingers .
It dropped on the floor and I kicked it .
There was a sound behind me .
I did n't turn around .
I closed my eyes and breathed slowly and deeply until I had myself under control .
Then I went upstairs .
CHAPTER 4 The administration offices of Placerville High are on the third floor , along with the study hall , the library , and Room 300 , which is the typing room .
When you push through the door from the stairs , the first thing you hear is that steady clickety-clack .
The only time it lets up is when the bell changes the classes or when Mrs. Green has something to say .
I guess she usually does n't say much , because the typewriters hardly ever stop .
There are thirty of them in there , a battle-scarred platoon of gray Underwoods .
They have them marked with numbers so you know which one is yours .
The sound never stops , clickety-clack , clickety-clack , from September to June .
I 'll always associate that sound with waiting in the outer office of the admin offices for Mr. Denver or Mr. Grace , the original dipso-duo .
It got to be a lot like those jungle movies where the hero and his safari are pushing deep into darkest Africa , and the hero says : `` Why do n't they stop those blasted drums ? ''
And when the blasted drums stop he regards the shadowy , rustling foliage and says : `` I do n't like it .
It 's too quiet . ''
I had gotten to the office late just so Mr. Denver would be ready to see me , but the receptionist , Miss Marble , only smiled and said , `` Sit down , Charlie .
Mr. Denver will be right with you . ''
So I sat down outside the slatted railing , folded my hands , and waited for Mr. Denver to be right with me .
And who should be in the other chair but one of my father 's good friends , AI Lathrop .
He was giving me the old slick-eye , too , I can tell you .
He had a briefcase on his lap and a bunch of sample textbooks beside him .
I had never seen him in a suit before .
He and my father were a couple of mighty hunters .
Slayers of the fearsome sharp-toothed deer and the killer partridge .
I had been on a hunting trip once with my father and Al and a couple of my father 's other friends .
Part of Dad 's never-ending campaign to Make a Man Out of My Son .
`` Hi , there ! ''
I said , and gave him a big shiteating grin .
And I could tell from the way he jumped that he knew all about me .
`` Uh , hi , uh , Charlie . ''
He glanced quickly at Miss Marble , but she was going over attendance lists with Mrs. Venson from next door .
No help there .
He was all alone with Carl Decker 's psychotic son , the fellow who had nearly killed the chemistry-physics teacher .
`` Sales trip , huh ? ''
I asked him .
`` Yeah , that 's right . ''
He grinned as best he could .
`` Just out there selling the old books . ''
`` Really crushing the competition , huh ? ''
He jumped again .
`` Well , you win some , you lose some , you know , Charlie . ''
Yeah , I knew that .
All at once I did n't want to put the needle in him anymore .
He was forty and getting bald and there were crocodile purses under his eyes .
He went from school to school in a Buick station wagon loaded with textbooks and he went hunting for a week in November every year with my father and my father 's friends , up in the Allagash .
And one year I had gone with them .
I had been nine , and I woke up and they had been drunk and they had scared me .
That was all .
But this man was no ogre .
He was just forty-baldish and trying to make a buck .
And if I had heard him saying he would murder his wife , that was just talk .
After all , I was the one with blood on my hands .
Instead I sat and watched him sweat and thought about old times .
CHAPTER 5 I came awake with a jerk out of a nightmare I had n't had for a long time ; a dream where I was in some dark blind alley and something was coming for me , some dark hunched monster that creaked and dragged itself along ... a monster that would drive me insane if I saw it .
Bad dream .
I had n't had it since I was a little kid , and I was a big kid now .
Nine years old .
At first I did n't know where I was , except it sure was n't my bedroom at home .
It seemed too close , and it smelled different .
I was cold and cramped , and I had to take a whiz something awful .
There was a harsh burst of laughter that made me jerk in my bed-except it was n't a bed , it was a bag .
`` So she 's some kind of fucking bag , '' Al Lathrop said from beyond the canvas wall , `` but fucking 's the operant word there . ''
Camping , I was camping with my dad and his friends .
I had n't wanted to come .
`` Yeah , but how do you git it up , Al ?
That 's what I want to know . ''
That was Scotty Norwiss , another one of Dad 's friends .
His voice was slurred and furry , and I started to feel afraid again .
They were drunk .
`` I just turn off the lights and pretend I 'm with Carl Decker 's wife , '' Al said , and there was another bellow of laughter that made me cringe and jerk in my sleeping bag .
Oh , God , I needed to whiz piss make lemonade whatever you wanted to call it .
But I did n't want to go out there while they were drinking and talking .
I turned to the tent wall and discovered I could see them .
They were between the tent and the campfire , and their shadows , tall and alien-looking , were cast on the canvas .
It was like watching a magic lantern show .
I watched the shadow-bottle go from one shadow-hand to the next .
`` You know what I 'd do if I caught you with my wife ? ''
My dad asked Al .
`` Probably ask if I needed any help , '' Al said , and there was another burst of laughter .
The elongated shadow-heads on the tent wall bobbed up and down , back and forth , with insectile glee .
They did n't look like people at all .
They looked like a bunch of talking praying mantises , and I was afraid .
`` No , seriously , '' my dad said .
`` Seriously .
You know what I 'd do if I caught somebody with my wife ? ''
`` What , Carl ? ''
That was Randy Earl .
`` You see this ? ''
A new shadow on the canvas .
My father 's hunting knife , the one he carried out in the woods , the one I later saw him gut a deer with , slamming it into the deer 's guts to the hilt and then ripping upward , the muscles in his forearm bulging , spilling out green and steaming intestines onto a carpet of needles and moss .
The firelight and the angle of the canvas turned the hunting knife into a spear .
`` You see this son of a bitch ?
I catch some guy with my wife , I 'd whip him over on his back and cut off his accessories . ''
`` He 'd pee sitting down to the end of his days , right , Carl ? ''
That was Hubie Levesque , the guide .
She opened the door and came out on the porch .
Her face looked sallow and tired but not stupid .
She had a loaf of bread in one hand and a six-pack of Dawson 's Ale in the other .
'I 'm Laura Stanton , ' she said .
'It 's very nice to meet you .
We do n't like to seem unsociable in Willow , but it 's the rainy season here tonight . '
John and Elise exchanged bewildered glances .
Elise looked at the sky .
Except for a few small fair-weather clouds , it was a lucid , unblemished blue .
`` I know how it looks , '' the Stanton woman said , `` but that doesn '' t mean anything , does it , Henry ? ''
`` No '' m , '' Eden said .
He took one giant drag on his eroded cigarette and then pitched it over the porch rail .
`` You can feel the humidity in the air , '' the Stanton woman said .
`` That '' s the key , isn '' t it , Henry ? ''
`` Well , '' Eden allowed , `` ayuh .
But it is seven years .
To the day . ''
`` The very day , '' Laura Stanton agreed .
They both looked expectantly at the Grahams .
`` Pardon me , '' Elise said at last .
`` I don '' t understand any of this .
Is it some sort of local joke ? ''
This time Henry Eden and Laura Stanton exchanged the glances , then sighed at exactly the same moment , as if on cue .
`` I hate this , '' Laura Stanton said , although whether to the old man or to herself John Graham had no idea .
`` Got to be done , '' Eden replied .
She nodded , and then sighed .
It was the sigh of a woman who has set down a heavy burden and knows she must now pick it up again .
`` This doesn '' t come up very often , '' she said , `` because the rainy season only comes in Willow every seven years¡­ '' `` June seventeenth , '' Eden put in .
`` Rainy season every seven years on June seventeenth .
Never changes , not even in leap-year .
It '' s only one night , but rainy season '' s what it '' s always been called .
Damned if I know why .
Do you know why , Laura ? ''
`` No , '' she said , `` and I wish you '' d stop interrupting , Henry .
I think you '' re getting senile . ''
`` Well , pardon me for livin , I just fell off the hearse , '' the old man said , clearly nettled .
Elise threw John a glance that was a little frightened .
Are these people having us on ?
it asked .
Or are they both crazy ?
John didn '' t know , but he wished heartily that they had gone to Augusta for their supplies ; they could have gotten a quick supper at one of the clam-stands along Route 17 .
`` Now listen , '' the Stanton woman said kindly .
`` We reserved a room for you at the Wonderview Motel out on the Woolwich Road , if you want it .
The place was full , but the manager '' s my cousin , and he was able to clear one room out for me .
You could come back tomorrow and spend the rest of the summer with us .
We '' d be glad to have you . ''
`` If this is a joke , I '' m not getting the point , '' John said .
`` No , it '' s not a joke , '' she said .
She glanced at Eden , who gave her a brisk little nod , as if to say Go on , don '' t quit now .
The woman looked back at John and Elise , appeared to steel herself , and said , `` You see , folks , it rains toads here in Willow every seven years .
There .
Now you know . ''
`` Toads , '' Elise said in a distant , musing , Tell-me-I '' m-dreaming-all-this voice .
`` Toads , ayuh ! ''
Henry Eden affirmed cheerfully .
John was looking cautiously around for help , if help should be needed .
But Main Street was utterly deserted .
Not only that , he saw , but shuttered .
Not a car moved on the road .
Not a single pedestrian was visible on either sidewalk .
We could be in trouble here , he thought .
If these people are as nutty as they sound , we could be in real trouble .
He suddenly found himself thinking of Shirley Jackson '' s short story `` The Lottery '' for the first time since he '' d read it in junior high school .
`` Don '' t you get the idea that I '' m standin here and soundin like a fool `` cause I want to , '' Laura Stanton said .
`` Fact is , I '' m just doin my duty .
Henry , too .
You see , it doesn '' t just sprinkle toads .
It pours . ''
`` Come on , '' John said to Elise , taking her arm above the elbow .
He gave them a smile that felt as genuine as a six-dollar bill .
`` Nice to meet you folks . ''
He guided Elise down the porch steps , looking back over his shoulder at the old man and the slump-shouldered , pallid woman two or three times as he did .
It didn '' t seem like a good idea to turn his back on them completely .
The woman took a step toward them , and John almost stumbled and fell off the last step .
`` It is a little hard to believe , '' she agreed .
`` You probably think I am just as nutty as a fruitcake . ''
`` Not at all , '' John said .
The large , phony smile on his face now felt as if it were approaching the lobes of his ears .
Dear Jesus , why had he ever left St. Louis ?
He had driven nearly fifteen hundred miles with a busted radio and air-conditioner to meet Farmer Jekyll and Missus Hyde .
`` That '' s all right , though , '' Laura Stanton said , and the weird serenity in her face and voice made him stop by the ITALIAN SANDWICHES sign , still six feet from the Ford .
`` Even people who have heard of rains of frogs and toads and birds and such don '' t have a very clear idea of what happens in Willow every seven years .
Take a little advice , though : if you are going to stay , you '' d be well off to stay in the house .
You '' ll most likely be all right in the house . ''
`` Might want to close y '' shutters , though , '' Eden added .
The dog lifted his tail and articulated another long and groaning dog-fart , as if to emphasize the point .
`` We '' ll¡­ we '' ll do that , '' Elise said faintly , and then John had the Ford '' s passenger door open and was nearly shovelling her inside .
`` You bet , '' he said through his large frozen grin .
`` And come back and see us tomorrow , '' Eden called as John hurried around the front of the Ford to his side .
`` You '' ll feel a mite safer around us tomorrow , I think . ''
He paused , then added : `` If you '' re still around at all , accourse . ''
John waved , got behind the wheel , and pulled out .
There was silence on the porch for a moment as the old man and the woman with the pale , unhealthy skin watched the Ford head back up Main Street .
It left at a considerably higher speed than that at which it had come .
'Well , we done it , ' the old man said contentedly .
'Yes , ' she agreed , 'and I feel like a horse 's ass .
I always feel like a horse 's ass when I see the way they look at us .
At me . '
'Well , ' he said , 'it 's only once every seven years .
And it has to be done just that way .
Chase , the security guard , waved at me as I passed .
`` Hey Scarlet , '' he said with a small , shy smile .
I only nodded , more concerned with getting the upper GI ready on time than with chitchat .
`` You should talk to him , '' Christy said .
She nodded in Chase 's direction as I breezed by her and her piles of long , yellow ringlets .
I shook my head , walking into the exam room .
The familiar sound of my feet sticking to the floor began an equally familiar beat .
Whatever they cleaned the floor with was supposed to sanitize the worst bacteria known to man , but it left behind a sticky residue .
Maybe to remind us it was there-or that the floor needed to be mopped again .
I pulled bottles of barium contrast from the upper cabinet , and filled the remaining space with water .
I replaced the cap , and then shook the bottle to mix the powder and water into a disgusting slimy paste that smelled of bananas .
`` Do n't start .
I 've already told you no .
He looks fifteen . ''
`` He 's twenty-seven , and do n't be a shrew .
He 's cute , and he 's dying for you to talk to him . ''
Her mischievous smile was infuriatingly contagious .
`` He 's a kid , '' I said .
`` Go get the patient . ''
Christy smiled and left the room , and I made a mental note of everything I 'd set on the table for Dr. Hayes .
God , he was cranky ; particularly on Mondays , and even more so during shitty weather .
I was lucky enough to be somewhat on his good side .
As a student , I had cleaned houses for the radiologists .
It earned me decent money , and was perfect since I was in school forty hours a week at that time .
The docs were hard asses in the hospital , but they helped me out more than anyone else while I was going through the divorce , letting me bring the girls to work , and giving me a little extra at Christmas and on birthdays .
Dr. Hayes paid me well to drive to his escape from the city , Red Hill Ranch , an hour and a half away in the middle-of-nowhere Kansas to clean his old farmhouse .
It was a long drive , but it served its purpose : No cell service .
No Internet .
No traffic .
No neighbors .
Finding the place on my own took a few tries until Halle made up a song with the directions .
I could hear her tiny voice in my head , singing loudly and sweetly out the window .
West on Highway 11 On our way to heaven North on Highway 123 123 ?
123 !
Cross the border That 's an order !
Left at the white tower So Mom can clean the doctor 's shower Left at the cemetery Creepy ... and scary !
First right !
That 's right !
Red !
Hill !
Roooooooad !
After that , we could make it there , rain or shine .
I 'd even mentioned a few times that it would be the perfect hideaway in case of an apocalypse .
Jenna and I were sort of post-apocalyptic junkies , always watching end-of-the-world marathons and preparation television shows .
We never canned chicken or built an underground tank in the woods , but it was entertaining to see the lengths other people went to .
Dr. Hayes 's ranch would make the safest place to survive .
The cupboards and pantry were always stocked with food , and the basement would make any gun enthusiast proud .
The gentle hills kept the farmhouse somewhat inconspicuous , and wheat fields bordered three sides .
The road was about fifty yards from the north side of the house , and on the other side of the red dirt was another wheat field .
Other than the large maple tree in the back , visibility was excellent .
Good for watching sunsets , bad for anyone trying to sneak in undetected .
Christy opened the door and waited for the patient to enter .
The young woman stepped just inside the door , thin , her eyes sunken and tired .
She looked at least twenty pounds underweight .
`` This is Dana Marks , date of birth twelve , nine , eighty-nine .
Agreed ? ''
Christy said , turning to Dana .
Dana nodded , the thin skin on her neck stretching over her tendons as she did so .
Her skin was a sickly gray , highlighting the purple under her eyes .
Christy handed the woman loose folds of thin blue fabric .
`` Just take this gown behind the curtain , there , and undress down to your underpants .
They do n't have any rhinestones or anything , do they ? ''
Dana shook her head , seeming slightly amused , and then slowly made her way behind the curtain .
Christy picked up a film and walked to the X-ray table in the middle of the room , sliding it into the Bucky tray between the table surface and the controls .
`` You should at least say hi . ''
`` Hi . ''
`` Not me , dummy .
To Chase . ''
`` Are we still talking about him ? ''
Christy rolled her eyes .
`` Yes .
He 's cute , has a good job , has never been married , no kids .
Did I mention cute ?
All that dark hair ... and his eyes ! ''
`` They 're brown .
Go ahead .
I dare you to play up brown . ''
`` They 're not just brown .
They 're like a golden honey brown .
You better jump on that now before you miss your chance .
Do you know how many single women in this hospital are salivating over that ? ''
`` I 'm not worried about it . ''
Christy smiled and shook her head , and then her expression changed once her pager went off .
She pulled it from her waistline and glanced down .
`` Crap .
I have to move the C-arm from OR 2 for Dr. Pollard 's case .
Hey , I might have to leave a little early to take Kate to the orthodontist .
Do you think you could do my three o'clock surgery ?
It 's easy peasy . ''
`` What is it ? ''
`` Just a port .
Basically C-arm babysitting . ''
The C-arm , named for its shape , showed the doctors where they were in the body in real time .
Because the machine emitted radiation , it was our jobs as X-ray techs to stand there , push , pull , and push the button during surgery .
That , and make sure the doctor did n't over-radiate the patient .
I did n't mind running it , but the damn thing was heavy .
Christy would have done the same for me , though , so I nodded .
`` Sure .
Just give me the pager before you leave . ''
Christy grabbed a lead apron , and then left me to go upstairs .
After returning the friend 's car and picking up his own , he had gone home .
Linda had been in bed , reading a book .
He asked her how her trip to Portland had been .
She replied that it had been fun , but she had n't seen anything she liked well enough to buy .
That 's when I knew for sure , ' Andy told the breathless spectators .
He spoke in the same calm , remote voice in which he delivered almost all of his testimony .
'What was your frame of mind in the seventeen days between then and the night your wife was murdered ? '
Andy 's lawyer asked him .
'I was in great distress , ' Andy said calmly , coldly .
Like a man reciting a shopping list he said that he had considered suicide , and had even gone so far as to purchase a gun in Lewiston on 8 September .
His lawyer then invited him to tell the jury what had happened after his wife left to meet Glenn Quentin on the night of the murders .
Andy told them ... and the impression he made was the worst possible .
I knew him for close to thirty years , and I can tell you he was the most self-possessed man I 've ever known .
What was right with him he 'd only give you a little at a time .
What was wrong with him he kept bottled up inside .
If he ever had a dark night of the soul , as some writer or other has called it , you would never know .
He was the type of man who , if he had decided to commit suicide , would do it without leaving a note but not until his affairs had been put neatly in order .
If he had cried on the witness stand , or if his voice had thickened and grown hesitant , even if he had gotten yelling at that Washington-bound District Attorney , I do n't believe he would have gotten the life sentence he wound up with .
Even if he had 've he would have been out on parole by 1954 .
But he told his story like a recording machine , seeming to say to the jury : this is it .
Take it or leave it .
They left it .
He said he was drunk that night , that he 'd been more or less drunk since 24 August , and that he was a man who did n't handle his liquor very well .
Of course that by itself would have been hard for any jury to swallow .
They just could n't see this coldly self-possessed young man in the neat double-breasted three-piece woollen suit ever getting falling-down drunk over his wife 's sleazy little affair with some small-town golf pro .
I believed it because I had a chance to watch Andy that those six men and six women did n't have .
Andy Dufresne took just four drinks a year all the time I knew him .
He would meet me in the exercise yard every year about a week before his birthday and then again about two weeks before Christmas .
On each occasion he would arrange for a bottle of Jack Daniels .
He bought it the way most cons arrange to buy their stuff-the slave 's wages they pay in here , plus a little of his own .
Up until 1965 what you got for your time was a dime an hour .
In '65 they raised it all the way up to a quarter .
My commission on liquor was and is ten per cent , and when you add on that surcharge to the price of a fine sippin ' whiskey like the Black Jack , you get an idea of how many hours of Andy Dufresne 's sweat in the prison laundry was going to buy his four drinks a year .
On the morning of his birthday , 20 September , he would have himself a big knock , and then he 'd have another that night after lights out .
The following day he 'd give the rest of the bottle back to me , and I would share it around .
As for the other bottle , he dealt himself one drink Christmas night and another on New Year 's Eve .
Then that one would also come to me with instructions to pass it on .
Four drinks a year -and that is the behaviour of a man who has been bitten hard by the bottle .
Hard enough to draw blood .
He told the jury that on the night of the 10th he had been so drunk he could only remember what had happened in little isolated snatches .
He had gotten drunk that afternoon - 'I took on a double helping of Dutch courage ' is how he put it -before taking on Linda .
After she left to meet Quentin , he remembered deciding to confront them .
On the way to Quentin 's bungalow , he swung into the country club for a couple of quick ones .
He could not , he said , remember telling the bartender he could 'read about the rest of it in the papers ' , or saying anything to him at all .
He remembered buying beer in the Handy-Pik , but not the dishtowels .
'Why would I want dishtowels ? '
he asked , and one of the papers reported that three of the lady jurors shuddered .
Later , much later , he speculated to me about the clerk who had testified on the subject of those dishtoweis , and I think it'i worth jotting down what he said .
'Suppose that , during their chmvmhn fur witnesses , ' Andy said one day in the oxwulio yard , 'they stumble on this fellow who sold me the beer that night .
By then three days have gone by .
The facts of the case have been broadsided in all the papers .
Maybe they ganged up on the guy , five or six cops , plus the dick from the attorney general 's office , plus the DA 's assistant .
Memory is a pretty subjective thing , Red .
They could have started out with `` Is n't it possible that he purchased four or five dishtowels ? ''
and worked their way up from there .
If enough people want you to remember something , that can be a pretty powerful persuader . '
I agreed that it could .
'But there 's one even more powerful , ' Andy went on in that musing way of his .
'I think it 's at least possible that he convinced himself .
It was the limelight .
Reporters asking him questions , his picture in the papers ... all topped , of course , by his star turn in court .
I 'm not saying that he deliberately falsified his story , or perjured himself .
I think it 's possible that lie could have passed a lie detector test with flying colours , or sworn on his mother 's sacred name that I bought those dishtowels .
But still ... memory is such a goddam subjective thing .
'I know this much : even though my own lawyer thought I had to be lying about half my story , he never bought that business about the dishtowels .
It 's crazy on the face of it .
I was pig-drunk , too drunk to have been thinking about muffling the gunshots .
If I 'd done it , I just would have let them rip . '
He went up to the turnout and parked there .
He drank beer and smoked cigarettes .
He watched the lights downstairs in Quentin 's place go out .
He watched a single light go on upstairs ... and fifteen minutes later he watched that one go out .
He said he could guess the rest .
'No , I did not , ' Andy answered .
By midnight , he said , he was sobering up .
He was also feeling the first signs of a bad hangover .
He decided to go home and sleep it off and think about the whole thing in a more adult fashion the next day .
'At that time , as I drove home , I was beginning to think that the wisest course would be to simply let her go to Reno and get her divorce . '
'Thank you , Mr Dufresne . '
The DA popped up .
'You divorced her in the quickest way you could think of , did n't you ?
You divorced her with a .38 revolver wrapped in dishtowels , did n't you ? '
'No sir , I did not , ' Andy said calmly .
'And then you shot her lover . '
'No , sir . '
'You mean you shot Quentin first ? '
'I mean I did n't shoot either one of them .
I drank two quarts of beer and smoked however many cigarettes that the police found at the turnout .
Then I drove home and went to bed . '
'You told the jury that between 24 August and 10 September , you were feeling suicidal . '
'Yes , sir . '
'Suicidal enough to buy a revolver . '
'Yes . '
'Would it bother you overmuch , Mr Dufresne , if I told you that you do not seem to me to be the suicidal type ? '
'No , ' Andy said , 'but you do n't impress me as being terribly sensitive , and I doubt very much that , if I were feeling suicidal , I would take my problem to you . '
There was a slight tense titter in the courtroom at this , but it won him no points with the jury .
'Did you take your .38 with you on the night of September ? '
'No ; as I 've already testified -' 'Oh , yes ! '
The DA smiled sarcastically .
'You threw it into the river , did n't you ?
He chuckled a little .
`` You shoot as much as you want .
They stock it , you know .
Deer , antelope , bear , bison .
Everything . ''
`` Was it Boca Rio ? ''
`` I really do n't remember .
I think the name was longer than that . ''
Harry 's eyes had gone slightly dreamy .
`` That guy that just left and myself and two others went to Boca Rio in 1965 .
I shot a zebra .
A goddam zebra !
I got it mounted in my game room at home .
That was the best time I ever had in my life , bar none .
I envy your cousin . ''
`` Well , I talked it over with my wife , '' he said , `` and she said go ahead .
We had a very good year at the laundry .
I work at the Blue Ribbon Laundry over in Western . ''
`` Yes , I know where that is . ''
He felt that he could go on talking to Harry all day , for the rest of the year , embroidering the truth and the lies into a beautiful , gleaming tapestry .
Let the world go by .
Fuck the gas shortage and the high price of beef and the shaky ceasefire .
Let there be talk of cousins that never were , right , Fred ?
Right on , Georgie .
`` We got the Central Hospital account this year , as well as the mental institution , and also three new motels . ''
`` Is the Quality Motor Court on Franklin Avenue one of yours ? ''
`` Yes , it is . ''
`` I 've stayed there a couple of times , '' Harry said .
`` The sheets were always very clean .
Funny , you never think about who washes the sheets when you stay at a motel . ''
`` Well , we had a good year .
And so I thought , maybe I can get Nick a rifle and a pistol .
I know he 's always wanted a.44 Magnum , I 've heard him mention that one- '' Harry brought the Magnum up and laid it carefully on top of the glass case .
He picked it up .
He liked the heft of it .
It felt like business .
He put it back down on the glass case .
`` The chambering on that- '' Harry began .
He laughed and held up a hand .
`` Do n't sell me .
I 'm sold .
An ignoramus always sells himself .
How much ammunition should I get with that ? ''
Harry shrugged .
`` Get him ten boxes , why do n't you ?
He can always get more .
The price on that gun is two-eighty-nine plus tax , but I 'm going to give it to you for two-eighty , ammo thrown in .
How 's that ? ''
`` Super , '' he said , meaning it .
And then , because something more seemed required , he added : `` It 's a handsome piece . ''
`` If it 's Boca Rio , he 'll put it to good use . ''
`` Now the rifle- '' '' What does he have ? ''
He shrugged and spread his hands .
`` I 'm sorry .
I really do n't know .
Two or three shotguns , and something he calls an auto-loader- '' '' Remington ? ''
Harry asked him so quickly that he felt afraid ; it was as if he had been walking in waist-deep water that had suddenly shelved off .
`` I think it was .
I could be wrong . ''
`` Remington makes the best , '' Harry said , and nodded , putting him at ease again .
`` How high do you want to go ? ''
`` Well , I 'll be honest with you .
The motor probably cost him four hundred .
I 'd like to go at least five .
Six hundred tops . ''
`` You and this cousin really get along , do n't you ? ''
`` We grew up together , '' he said sincerely .
`` I think I 'd give my right arm to Nick , if he wanted it . ''
`` Well , let me show you something , '' Harry said .
He picked a key out of the bundle on his ring and went to one of the glass cabinets .
He opened it , climbed up on a stool , and brought down a long , heavy rifle with an inlaid stock .
`` This may be a little higher than you want to go , but it 's a beautiful gun . ''
Harry handed it to him .
`` What is it ? ''
`` That 's a four-sixty Weatherbee .
Shoots heavier ammunition than I 've got here in the place right now .
I 'd have to order however many rounds you wanted from Chicago .
Take about a week .
It 's a perfectly weighted gun .
The muzzle energy on that baby is over eight thousand pounds ... like hitting something with an airport limousine .
If you hit a buck in the head with it , you 'd have to take the tail for a trophy . ''
`` I do n't know , '' he said , sounding dubious even though he had decided he wanted the rifle .
`` I know Nick wants trophies .
That 's part of- '' '' Sure it is , '' Harry said , taking the Weatherbee and chambering it .
The hole looked big enough to put a carrier pigeon in .
`` Nobody goes to Boca Rio for meat .
So your cousin gutshoots .
With this piece , you do n't have to worry about tracking the goddam animal for twelve miles through the high country , the animal suffering the whole time , not to mention you missing dinner .
This baby will spread his insides over twenty feet . ''
`` How much ? ''
`` Well , I 'll tell you .
I ca n't move it in town .
Who wants a freaking anti-tank gun when there 's nothing to go after anymore but pheasant ?
And if you put them on the table , it tastes like you 're eating exhaust fumes .
It retails for nine-fifty , wholesales for six-thirty .
I 'd let you have it for seven hundred . ''
`` That comes to ... almost a thousand bucks . ''
`` We give a ten percent discount on orders over three hundred dollars .
That brings it back to nine . ''
He shrugged .
But you have to do it right now .
Before ... Before what ?
That one was easy .
Before she fell asleep again .
A part of her mind-a habituated , cowed part-suddenly realized that she was seriously entertaining this thought and put up a terrified clamor .
Leave her home of fourteen years ?
The house where she could put her hand on anything she wanted ?
The husband who , if a little short-tempered and quick to use his fists , had always been a good provider ?
The idea was ridiculous .
She must forget it , and immediately .
And she might have done so , almost certainly would have done so , if not for that drop on the sheet .
That single dark red drop .
Then do n't look at it !
the part of herself which fancied itself practical and sensible shouted nervously .
For Christ 's sake do n't look at it , it 's going to get you into trouble !
Except she found she could no longer look away .
Her eyes remained fixed upon the spot , and she rocked faster than ever .
Her feet , clad in white lowtop sneakers , patted the floor in a quickening rhythm ( the buzzing was now mostly in her head , rattling her brains , heating her up ) , and what she thought was Fourteen years .
Fourteen years of having him talk to me up dose .
The miscarriage .
The tennis racket .
Three teeth , one of which I swallowed .
The broken rib .
The punches .
The pinches .
And the bites , of course .
Plenty of those .
Plenty of-Stop it !
Because that other voice , the deep voice , was right .
He might not kill her .
He might not .
And what would she be like after fourteen more years of having him talk to her up close ?
Would she be able to bend over ?
Would she have an hour-fifteen minutes , even-a day when her kidneys did n't feel like hot stones buried in her back ?
Would he perhaps hit her hard enough to deaden some vital connection , so she could no longer raise one of her arms or legs , or perhaps leave one side of her face hanging slack and expressionless , like poor Mrs Diamond , who clerked in the Store 24 at the bottom of the hill ?
She got up suddenly and with such force that the back of Pooh 's Chair hit the wall .
She stood there for a moment , breathing hard , wide eyes still fixed on the maroon spot , and then she headed for the door leading into the living room .
Where are you going ?
Ms Practical-Sensible screamed inside her head-the part of her which seemed perfectly willing to be maimed or killed for the continued privilege of knowing where the teabags were in the cupboard and where the Scrubbies were kept under the sink .
Just where do you think you're- She clapped a lid on the voice , something she 'd had no idea she could do until this moment .
She took her purse off the table by the sofa and walked across the living room toward the front door .
The room suddenly seemed very big , and the walk very long .
I have to take this a step at a time .
If I think even one step ahead , I 'm going to lose my nerve .
She did n't think that would be a problem , actually .
For one thing , what she was doing had taken on a hallucinatory quality-surely she could not simply be walking out of her house and her marriage on the spur of the moment , could she ?
It had to be a dream , did n't it ?
And there was something else , too : not thinking ahead had pretty much become a habit with her , one that had started on their wedding night , when he 'd bitten her like a dog for slamming a door .
Well , you ca n't go like this , even if you just make it to the bottom of the block before running out of steam , Practical-Sensible advised .
At the very least change out of those jeans that show how wide your can 's getting .
And run a comb through your hair .
She paused , and was for a moment close to giving the whole thing up before she even got to the front door .
Then she recognized the advice for what it was-a desperate ploy to keep her in the house .
And a shrewd one .
It did n't take long to swap a pair of jeans for a skirt or to mousse your hair and then use a comb on it , but for a woman in her position , it would almost certainly have been long enough .
For what ?
To go back to sleep again , of course .
She 'd be having serious doubts by the time she 'd pulled the zipper up on the side of her skirt , and by the time she 'd finished with her comb , she 'd have decided she had simply suffered a brief fit of insanity , a transitory fugue state that was probably related to her cycle .
Then she would go back into the bedroom and change the sheets .
`` No , '' she murmured .
`` I wo n't do that .
I wo n't . ''
But with one hand on the doorknob , she paused again .
She shows sense !
Practical-Sensible cried , her voice a mixture of relief , jubilation , and-was it possible ? -faint disappointment .
Hallelujah , the girl shows sense !
Better late than never !
The jubilation and relief in that mental voice turned to wordless horror as she crossed quickly to the mantel above the gas fireplace he had installed two years before .
What she was looking for probably would n't be there , as a rule he only left it up there toward the end of the month ( 'so I wo n't be tempted , '' he would say ) , but it could n't hurt to check .
And she knew his pin-number ; it was just their telephone number , with the first and last digits reversed .
It WILL hurt !
Practical-Sensible screamed .
If you take something that belongs to him , it 'll hurt plenty , and you know it !
PLENTY !
`` It wo n't be there anyway , '' she murmured , but it was-the bright green Merchant 's Bank ATM card with his name embossed on it .
Do n't you take that !
Do n't you dare !
But she found she did dare-all she had to do was call up the image of that drop of blood .
Besides , it was her card , too , her money , too ; was n't that what the marriage vow meant ?
Except it was n't about the money at all , not really .
It was about silencing the voice of Ms Practical-Sensible ; it was about making this sudden , unexpected lunge for freedom a necessity instead of a choice .
Ignoring the clamor of the voice in her head , she plucked the ATM card off the mantel , dropped it into her handbag , and quickly headed for the door again .
Do n't do it !
the voice of Ms Practical-Sensible wailed .
Oh Rosie , he wo n't just hurt you for this , for this he 'll put you in the hospital , maybe even kill you-do n't you know that ?
She supposed she did , but she kept walking just the same , her head down and her shoulders thrust forward , like a woman walking into a strong wind .
He probably would do those things ... but he would have to catch her first .
This time when her hand closed on the knob there was no pause-she turned it and opened the door and stepped out .
It was a beautiful sunshiny day in mid-April , the branches on the trees beginning to thicken with buds .
Her shadow stretched across the stoop and the pale new grass like something cut from black construction paper with a sharp pair of scissors .
She stood there breathing deeply of the spring air , smelling earth which had been dampened ( and perhaps quickened ) by a shower that had passed in the night , while she had been lying asleep with one nostril suspended over that drying spot of blood .
The whole world is waking up , she thought .
It is n't just me .
A man in a jogging suit ran past on the sidewalk as she pulled the door closed behind her .
He lifted a hand to her , and she lifted hers in return .
She listened for the voice inside to raise its clamor again , but that voice was silent .
Perhaps it was stunned to silence by her theft of the ATM card , perhaps it had only been soothed by the tranquil peace of this April morning .
`` I 'm going , '' she murmured .
At the top of the stairs you stand on the landing , looking down the hall toward a closed door .
And if you walk down the hall toward it , watching as if from outside yourself as the door gets closer and larger , you can reach out your hand and put it on the tarnished silver knob - He turned away from the house , a straw-dry whistle of air slipping from his mouth .
Not yet .
Later , perhaps , but not yet .
For now it was enough to know that all of that was still here .
It had waited for him .
He put his hands on the hood of his car and looked out over the town .
He could find out down there who was handling the Marsten House , and perhaps lease it .
The kitchen would make an adequate writing room and he could bunk down in the front parlor .
But he would n't allow himself to go upstairs .
Not unless it had to be done .
1 He was sitting on a bench in the park when he observed the girl watching him .
She was a very pretty girl , and there was a silk scarf tied over her light blond hair .
She was currently reading a book , but there was a sketch pad and what looked like a charcoal pencil beside her .
It was Tuesday , September 16 , the first day of school , and the park had magically emptied of the rowdier element .
What was left was a scattering of mothers with infants , a few old men sitting by the war memorial , and this girl sitting in the dappled shade of a gnarled old elm .
She looked up and saw him .
An expression of startle ? ment crossed her face .
She looked down at her book ; looked up at him again and started to rise ; almost thought better of it ; did rise ; sat down again .
He got up and walked over , holding his own book , which was a paperback Western .
'Hello , ' he said agreeably .
'Do we know each other ? '
'No , ' she said .
'That is ... you 're Benjaman Mears , right ? '
'Right . '
He raised his eyebrows .
She laughed nervously , not looking in his eyes except in a quick flash , to try to read the barometer of his intentions .
She was quite obviously a girl not accustomed to speaking to strange men in the park .
'I thought I was seeing a ghost . '
She held up the book in her lap .
He saw fleetingly that 'Jerusalem 's Lot Public Library ' was stamped on the thickness of pages between covers .
The book was Air Dance , his second novel .
She showed him the photograph of himself on the back jacket , a photo that was four years old now .
The face looked boyish and frighteningly serious - the eyes were black diamonds .
'Of such inconsequential beginnings dynasties are be ? gun , ' he said , and although it was a joking throwaway remark , it hung oddly in the air , like prophecy spoken in jest .
Behind them , a number of toddlers were splashing happily in the wading pool and a mother was telling Roddy not to push his sister so high .
The sister went soaring up on her swing regardless , dress flying , trying for the sky .
It was a moment he remembered for years after , as though a special small slice had been cut from the cake of time .
If nothing fires between two people , such an instant simply falls back into the general wrack of memory .
Then she laughed and offered him the book .
'Will you autograph it ? '
'A library book ? '
'I 'll buy it from them and replace it . '
He found a mechanical pencil in his sweater pocket , opened the book to the flyleaf , and asked , 'What 's your name ? '
'Susan Norton . '
He wrote quickly , without thinking : For Susan Norton , the prettiest girl in the park .
Warm regards , Ben Mears .
He added the date below his signature in slashed notation .
'Now you 'll have to steal it , ' he said , handing it back .
'Air Dance is out of print , alas . '
'I 'll get a copy from one of those book finders in New York . '
She hesitated , and this time her glance at his eyes was a little longer .
'It 's an awfully good book . '
'Thanks .
When I take it down and look at it , I wonder how it ever got published . '
'Do you take it down often ? '
'Yeah , but I 'm trying to quit . '
She grinned at him and they both laughed and that made things more natural .
Later he would have a chance to think how easily this had happened , how smoothly .
The thought was never a comfortable one .
It conjured up an image of fate , not blind at all but equipped with sentient 20/20 vision and intent on grinding helpless mortals between the great millstones of the universe to make some unknown bread .
'I read Conway 's Daughter , too .
I loved that .
I suppose you hear that all the time . '
'Remarkably little , ' he said honestly .
Miranda had also loved Conway 's Daughter , but most of his coffeehouse friends had been noncommittal and most of the critics had clobbered it .
Well , that was critics for you .
Plot was out , masturbation in .
'Well , I did . '
'Have you read the new one ? '
'Billy Said Keep Going ?
Not yet .
Miss Coogan at the drugstore says it 's pretty racy . '
'Hell , it 's almost puritanical , ' Ben said .
'The language is rough , but when you 're writing about uneducated country boys , you ca n't ... look , can I buy you an ice-cream soda or something ?
I was just getting a hanker on for one . '
She checked his eyes a third time .
Then smiled , warmly .
'Sure .
I 'd love one .
They 're great in Spencer 's . '
That was the beginning of it .
2 'Is that Miss Coogan ? '
Ben asked it , low-voiced .
He was looking at a tall , spare woman who was wearing a red nylon duster over her white uniform .
Her blue-rinsed hair was done in a steplike succession of finger waves .
'That 's her .
She 's got a little cart she takes to the library every Thursday night .
She fills out reserve cards by the ton and drives Miss Starcher crazy . '
They were seated on red leather stools at the soda fountain .
He was drinking a chocolate soda ; hers was strawberry .
Spencer 's also served as the local bus depot and from where they sat they could look through an old-fashioned scrolled arch and into the waiting room , where a solitary young man in Air Force blues sat glumly with his feet planted around his suitcase .
'Does n't look happy to be going wherever he 's going , does he ? '
she said , following his glance .
'Leave 's over , I imagine , ' Ben said .
Now , he thought , she 'll ask if I 've ever been in the service .
But instead : 'I 'll be on that ten-thirty bus one of these days .
Good-by , 'salem 's Lot .
Probably I 'll be looking just as glum as that boy . '
'Where ? '
He seemed to try to make up for the lack of height by being in better shape than the rest of the guards .
They were all muscular , but he was one of the few who really took the weightlifting seriously .
He was also the only one with washboard abs .
He had the towels he 'd gone for , in front of those abs , and lower , and it was n't until he dropped the towels beside my chair that I realized he 'd left his bathing suit in the house .
`` Rhys !
What are you doing ? ''
He grinned at me .
`` Bathing suits this small are like lies .
It 's a way for humans to be nude without being naked .
I 'd rather just be naked . ''
`` They wo n't be able to print the pictures if one of us is nude , '' Doyle said .
`` They 'll print my ass , just not my front . ''
I looked up at him , suddenly suspicious .
`` And just why wo n't they be able to see the front of your body ? ''
He laughed , head back , mouth wide , a sound so joyous it seemed to make the day brighter .
`` I 'll be hiding myself against your gorgeous body . ''
`` No , '' Doyle said .
`` And are you going to do anything picture-worthy ? ''
Rhys asked , hands on his hips .
He was totally comfortable nude .
His body language never changed no matter what he was , or was n't , wearing .
It had taken two days worth of arguing to get Doyle into the thong bikini bottom he had on .
He 'd never participated in the court 's casual nudity .
Doyle stood , and the front of the suit was tiny enough , and close enough in color , that I could see Rhys 's point .
If you did n't know how magnificent Doyle looked nude , you might think this was it , at a glance .
From the back he looked almost as nude as Rhys .
`` I am wearing this , and I am in public view . ''
`` You 're cute , '' Rhys said , `` but if we want the tabloids to stop trying to snap pictures through the bedroom windows , we need to play fair with them .
We need to give them a show . ''
He spread his arms wide when he said the last , turning his back to me so I got the full view of the back of his body .
The view was better without the bathing suit to break up the clean , muscled lines of him .
He still had a wonderful ass , unlike some bodybuilders , who 've taken the lack of body fat to a point where there is nothing soft on their bodies .
You need a little softness to hide the lines of muscles , or it just looks wrong .
I could hear the helicopter now .
`` We 're running out of time , gentlemen .
I do not want to go back to having the photographers camped out in the trees outside the wall . ''
Rhys glanced back at me .
`` If we do n't give the first tabloid a good show , they 'll tell the rest that we lied , and we 'll have them climbing all over us again . ''
He sighed , and not as if he was happy .
`` I 'd rather flash my ass to the entire country than have another photographer break his arm falling off the roof . ''
`` Agreed , '' I said .
Doyle took a deep breath in through his nose and let it out slowly through his mouth .
`` Agreed . ''
How little he liked it showed in the lines of his body , the way he stood .
If he could n't act better than this , Doyle would have to be excused from future photo opportunities .
Rhys came to the foot of my lounge chair and knelt on all fours , with his hands on the chair arms .
He was grinning at me , and I knew he 'd find a way of enjoying this .
It might be duty , and he might prefer to just shoot the helicopter out of the sky , but he 'd play fair , and he 'd find a way to make it fun , if he could .
I gazed down his body , because I could n't help it .
I could n't not look at him dangling there , close enough to fondle , close enough for so much .
My voice was a little less than steady when I asked , `` Do you have a plan ? ''
`` I thought we 'd make out . ''
`` And what am I supposed to be doing ? ''
Doyle asked .
He sounded disgusted with the entire situation .
He loved being my lover , loved the possibility of being king ; he hated the publicity and everything that went with it .
`` You can take one end , I 'll take the other . ''
The helicopter was close now , perhaps hidden only by the line of tall eucalyptus trees that bordered the estate .
Doyle flashed a smile , white and sudden as lightning in the darkness of his face .
He moved with that liquid grace and speed that I could never match , and was suddenly kneeling beside my shoulder .
`` If I must , then I would have the sweet taste of your mouth . ''
Rhys darted a quick lick across my bare stomach that made me writhe and giggle .
He raised his face enough to say , `` There are other tastes just as sweet . ''
The look in his eye , his face , held a heat and knowledge that stole the laughter from my throat and sent my pulse racing .
Doyle brushed his lips across my shoulder .
The movement brought my gaze to his , and there was that same dark knowledge .
A knowledge born of nights and days of skin and sweat and bodies , of tangled sheets and pleasure .
My voice came a little shaky .
`` You 've decided to play .
What made you change your mind ? ''
He whispered against my cheek , and just his breath hot against my skin made me shudder .
`` This is a necessary evil , and if you must parade yourself for the media , then I will not abandon you . ''
That flash of a smile came again , like a surprise across his face .
It made him look younger , almost like someone else entirely .
It had only been in the last month or so that I 'd known Doyle had a smile like that inside him .
`` Besides , I can not leave you to Rhys .
Goddess knows what he would do out here on his own . ''
Rhys ran a finger along the edge of my bikini bottom .
`` Such a tiny piece of cloth .
They 'll never see it if we 're careful . ''
I frowned at him .
`` What do you mean ? ''
He dropped lower on the lounge chair so that his face was above that tiny piece of cloth , his hands sliding under my slightly raised thighs until those hands came up over my hips and hid the bright red cloth of the bikini bottom .
He lowered his face just over my groin , and his hair spread across my thighs like a curtain .
I did n't have time to protest , or even decide if I was going to .
The helicopter cleared the trees , and that was how they found us .
Rhys with his face buried in my groin , his legs bent at the knees , feet kicking slightly over his bare ass , like a child with a piece of good candy .
I thought Doyle would protest , until he pressed his face into my neck and I realized he was laughing .
Silently , shoulders shaking .
He eased me back onto the lounge chair so that I was lying down again , still laughing , but hiding it from the cameras .
I started to smile and was glad my sunglasses were back in place .
The smile started to turn into a laugh as the helicopter circled overhead , close enough to chop the water of the pool and send Rhys 's hair tickling along my skin .
My hair flared in the artificial wind like bloody flames .
I was laughing full out now , which made things besides my shoulders shake .
Rhys licked across the front of my groin , and even through the cloth it slowed the laughter , brought a catch to my breath .
He rolled his eye up the line of my body , and the look was enough ; he did n't want me laughing .
He set his teeth into the cloth and grazed me delicately with his teeth .
The sensation made me shudder , spine bowing enough to spill my head backward and open my mouth in a throaty gasp .
Doyle squeezed my shoulder , brought me back into my head a little .
I was still shaky and had trouble focusing on his face .
`` How did you know to call us , Marshal ? ''
I sat back in my chair , totally puzzled .
`` I get the feeling that if I had n't called you , you 'd be calling me , Sheriff Shaw . ''
`` How did you know to call us ? ''
he said again , each word a little more defined , an edge of stress , maybe even anger in his voice .
`` I called you because I 've got a package sitting on my desk that was mailed from Las Vegas . ''
`` What kind of package ? ''
he asked .
Was it time to tell the whole story ?
I had n't earlier because once you tell someone certain things-say , you got mailed a human head in a box-they tend to think you 're crazy .
I was in the media enough for someone to pretend to be me , so I 'd wanted them to take me seriously before they discounted me as some crackpot psychotic .
`` Someone mailed me a human head .
The return address is your city . ''
He was quiet for almost a minute .
I could hear his raspy breathing .
I was betting on the smoking .
About the time I was going to prompt him , he said , `` Can you describe the head ? ''
He could have said a lot of things , but that was n't on my list .
Too calm , even for a cop , and too practical .
The moment he asked me to describe it , I knew he had someone in mind , someone who was missing a head .
Shit .
`` The head is in plastic , packed in ice .
The hair looks dark , but that could be partially from the way it was packed .
The hair looks straight , but again , I ca n't be sure that it 's not some leakage making the hair appear straight .
Caucasian , I 'm sure of , and the eyes look pale .
Gray , maybe pale blue , though death can steal color from the eyes .
I have no way of telling time of death , so I do n't know how much discoloration could have taken place . ''
`` Have you searched the box for anything else ? ''
`` Is your man missing more than just a head ? ''
I asked .
`` A badge , and a finger .
The finger should have a wedding band on it . ''
`` I 'm sorry to hear that last part . ''
`` Why ? ''
`` Telling the wife , I do n't envy you that . ''
`` You have to do that yourself much ? ''
`` I 've seen the grieving families of the vampire vics often enough .
It always sucks . ''
`` Yeah , it always sucks , '' he said .
`` I 'm waiting for forensics to look at it before I touch anything .
If there are any clues , I do n't want to fuck them up because I got impatient . ''
`` Let me know what they find . ''
`` Will do . ''
I waited for him to add something , but he did n't .
All I had was his breathing , too rough , too labored .
I wondered when was the last time he 'd had a physical .
I finally said , `` What happened in Vegas , Sheriff Shaw ?
Why do I have a piece of one of your officers on my desk ? ''
`` We are n't sure that 's who it is . ''
`` No , but it would be an awfully big coincidence if you 've got an officer who 's missing a head , and I 've got a head in a box sent from your town that superficially matches your downed officer .
I just do n't buy a coincidence that big , Sheriff . ''
He sighed , then coughed ; it was a thick cough .
Maybe he was just getting over something .
`` Me either , Blake , me either .
I 'll go you one better .
We 're holding back the fact that we 've got a missing head and badge .
We 're also holding back from the media that there 's a message on the wall where my men were slaughtered .
It 's written in their blood , and it 's addressed to you . ''
`` To me , '' I said , and my voice sounded a little less certain of itself than I wanted it to sound .
It was my turn to clear my throat .
`` Yeah , it reads , Tell Anita Blake I 'll be waiting for her . ''
`` Well , that 's just ... creepy , '' I said , finally .
I could n't think of what else to say , but there was that electric jolt that got through the shock for a second .
I knew that jolt ; it was fear. ''
'Creepy , ' that 's the best you can do ?
This vampire sent you a human head .
Will it mean more to you if I tell you it 's the head of our local vampire executioner ? ''
I thought about that for a few breaths , felt that jolt again-somewhere between an electric shock and the sensation of champagne in your veins .
`` What word would make you happy , Shaw ?
Did he take any souvenirs from any of the other officers ? ''
`` You mean , did he decapitate anyone else ? ''
`` Yeah , that 's what I mean . ''
`` No .
He and his monsters killed three operators , but the bodies were not used for souvenir hunting . ''
`` Operators ... so the vamp executioner was with your SWAT ? ''
`` All warrants of execution are considered high risk , so SWAT helps deliver the message . ''
`` Yeah , they 're talking about that in St. Louis , too . ''
I was still unsure how I felt about them forcing me to take SWAT on vampire hunts .
Part of me was happy for the backup , and another part was totally against it .
The last time SWAT had backed me , some of them died .
I did n't like being responsible for more people .
Also , it was always a chore to convince them I was worthy to put my shoulder beside theirs and hit that door .
`` If our men killed any of the monsters , we do n't have any evidence to prove it .
It looks like our people dropped where they stood . ''
I did n't know what to say to that , so I ignored it .
`` How long ago did all this happen ? ''
`` Yesterday , no , night before last , yeah .
I 've been up for a while ; it starts to make you lose track . ''
`` I know , '' I said .
`` What the hell did you do to this vampire to make him like you this much ? ''
`` I have no idea .
Maybe let him get away and not chase him .
Oh , hell , Shaw , you know there 's no logic to these nut-bunnies . ''
`` Nut-bunnies , '' he said .
`` Fine , serial killers .
Dead or alive they operate on a logic all their own .
It does n't make sense to the rest of us because we 're not nut-bunnies . ''
He made a sound that I think was a laugh .
`` No , we 're not nut-bunnies , yet .
The papers and television say you killed a bunch of his people . ''
Finding a book by Nicholas Sparks on the bedside table , I snatched it up and fell into bed .
I slid beneath the thick blankets , hoping to keep warm for a little while longer , then opened to the dogeared page in the book and began reading .
I read for a few minutes before the chill started .
My feet grew colder and I started breathing slower , more shallowly .
I felt tired , so tired , but I wanted to read a little more .
I needed to know what happened to Ally and Noah .
Did everything turn out fine ?
It was darker outside than I remembered , but I could still read .
I needed to , desperately desired it , and yet ...
I folded the corner of the page I was on and carefully placed the book on the bedside table once more .
Curling my knees up to my chest and closing my eyes , I lay in bed .
... No one knew what exactly happened , and least of all Evan .
He wished he knew , because maybe that would put some sense into all of this , but even if he did there was n't anything he could do about it .
News stations reported an accident and a breakout .
Contamination or something , but no one needed to act concerned .
It was best if people remained in their homes and closed the doors .
Of course , no one did that .
Why should they ?
Well , Evan did it , because apparently he was an idiot .
That 's what his roommate told him at the time before he rushed out of their apartment and into the streets .
It did n't matter if you left or stayed , though .
It was something else entirely .
He could n't say why it did n't affect him or who it did affect , but it caused people to change .
The virus released from the labs made people slow and stumbling .
They could still talk , but in his experience they usually did n't want to .
Sick and pale , shambling around the city , looking like ... Zombies .
He laughed thinking about it .
Zombies , really ?
That was some serious movie shit right there .
People rising up from their graves , eating brains , hordes upon hordes of the living dead .
This was n't exactly that , though .
These people were n't dead ; they were sick .
He tried to tell everyone that , but no one listened to him .
`` You 're not a doctor , Evan , '' Alex said .
`` Just stick to hunting like you 're good at .
We need someone like you .
It 's safer if we stay away from the city unless we need supplies . ''
The city .
That 's what everyone called it now .
No names , no recognition .
They did n't want to acknowledge that the buildings in the city had names and history .
There was no past ; it did n't exist .
Maybe it was easier that way .
Maybe it helped people cope with their losses and figure out how to live in this screwed up place .
Evan did n't like it , though .
He did n't want to live in a fake city in the middle of the woods made out of tents .
He did n't want to act like none of his past life existed , and he did n't want to treat anyone like a zombie .
It did n't matter what he wanted , though , it mattered what they did .
And they -- the zombies -- killed people .
There was some reason , some gut instinct told him so , but what ?
Why would they do it ?
What was their purpose ?
He was n't anyone important .
He was just Evan , a man who 'd grown up hunting , played football in high school and college , and worked a respectable job as an EMT while trying to save up money to continue on with medical school .
Yeah , like Alex said , he was n't a doctor , but he would 've been .
And while higher learning had kind of gone out the window with the mass viral outbreak , if he had any say in things he 'd still be a doctor some day .
Maybe he could n't get an official degree , but he could study .
He refused to let anyone stop him .
I 'm walking through the city , confused .
Why am I here ?
I ca n't remember .
I need to go to my doctor 's appointment , I 'm sure of it , except where is my car ?
Do I have my keys ?
Reaching to my side for my purse , I realize I must have left it at home .
My hand , my skin .
I stare at my arm , unsure if what I 'm seeing is real or not .
My skin is a pale blue all the way from my fingertips and up my forearm , to my shoulder .
It looks like I 've painted my fingernails purple , but I never paint them that color .
Then I remember everything .
I ca n't remember why I came here or what I needed to do , but I ca n't stay .
The others shamble around nearby or lay in a huddled mess somewhere in the shadows .
No one wants to do anything , but I do .
I must .
Except what ?
Sometimes I find it hard to walk , but I know that I need to .
If I focus on one step at a time I can act like everyone else ; like I used to .
Strolling through the street , looking at the storefronts , I pretend it 's just any other day .
There 's a shop I like , a small custom-craft wardrobe boutique , and I stop in front of it and look inside .
Someone 's broken the window and upturned the dress dummies that used to show off the owner 's most recent fashions , but it does n't matter .
Reaching my hand out , I grab the hem of a pretty red dress and feel it between my fingers .
It 's soft and comforting and I want to try it on .
Walking to the door , I try to pull it open , but it 's locked .
I could go through the window , but the broken glass might cut me .
Not everyone cares .
Looking around , I can see the shattered fragments of people 's lives on their bodies .
A dark-blue skinned man has cuts all along his arms , probably from grabbing things out of broken-windowed shops or digging through the trash .
A child nearby , motherless , stumbles through the streets with bruises all along her legs from falling too much .
She almost looks like any other little girl except these bruises are large and angry , a thick purplish-blue color .
A woman stares off into the horizon .
I imagine she 's the mother to the child , letting her little girl play before they go home for the day and sit down to a nice family meal in their cozy dining room .
I do n't actually think that 's going to happen , but it 's nice to think it .
I used to attend college nearby , so I decide to walk there .
A quick , brisk pace , no shambling or stumbling .
One foot in front of the other , watching myself walk , forgetting about anything else .
I walk with a purpose , with determined strides .
At the front of the college , I stop for a moment and peer into the front gates .
The gates are chained shut to keep the students in and unwanted intruders out .
That 's how it 's supposed to be , anyways .
Maybe I was n't the best example of a student , but we used to slip out of our dorm rooms late at night and climb over the campus walls .
In the horror and the suspense genres , laziness almost always translates into some graphic crudity : the popped eyeball , the slashed throat , the decaying zombie .
When the TV censor takes those easy scares away it becomes necessary to think of other routes to the same goal .
The filmmaker becomes subversive , and sometimes the filmmaker becomes actually elegant , as Val ( Cat People ) Lewton 's films are often elegant .
The above probably sounds like a justification , but it 's not .
I am , after all , the guy who once said I wanted to terrify my audience , but would horrify it if I could n't achieve terror ... and if I could n't achieve horror , I 'd go for the gross-out .
What the fuck , I 'd say , I 'm not proud .
Network TV has , in a manner of speaking , taken away that ultimate fallback position .
There are some visceral moments in Storm of the Century Lloyd Wishman with the axe and Peter Godsoe with his rope are just two examples but we had to fight for every one of them , and some ( where five-year-old Pippa scratches her mother 's face and screams `` Let me go , you bitch ! ''
for example ) are still under strenuous discussion .
I 'm not the most popular person at Standards and Practices these days I keep calling people and whining , threatening to tell my big brother if they do n't stop teasing me ( in this case the part of my big brother is most frequently played by Bob Iger , who is ABC 's top guy ) .
Working with Standards and Practices on such a level is okay , I think ; to get along really well with them would make me feel like Tokyo Rose .
If you want to know who ends up winning most of the battles , compare the original teleplay ( which is what I 'm publishing here ) , with the finished TV program ( which is in edit as I write this ) .
And remember , please , that not all the changes which take place between original script and final film are made to satisfy Standards and Practices .
Them you can argue with ; TV timing is beyond argument .
Each finished segment must run ninety-one minutes , give or take a few seconds , and be divided into seven `` acts , '' in order to allow all those wonderful commercials which pay the bills .
There are tricks that can get you a little extra time in that time one is a form of electronic compression I do n't understand but mostly you just whittle your stick until it fits in the hole .
It 's a pain in the ass but not a gigantic one ; no worse , say , than having to wear a school uniform or a tie to work .
And that 's the way novels should be written , of course .
When people ask me if I write books with the movies in mind , I always feel a little irritated ... even insulted .
It 's not quite like asking a girl `` Do you ever do it for money ? ''
although I used to think so ; it 's the assumption of calculation which is unpleasant .
That kind of ledger-sheet thinking has no business in the writing of stories .
Writing stories is only about writing stories .
Business and ledger-sheet thinking conies after , and is best left to people who understand how to do it .
This was the sort of attitude I adopted while working on Storm of the Century .
I wrote it as a TV script because that 's how the story wanted to be written ... but with no actual belief that it would ever be on TV .
I knew enough about filmmaking by December of 1996 to know I would be writing a special-effects nightmare into my script a snowstorm bigger than any that had been previously attempted on television .
I was also creating an enormous cast of characters only , once the writing is done and the business of actually making a show begins , the writer 's characters become the casting director 's speaking parts .
I went ahead with the script anyway , because you do n't do the budget while you 're writing the book .
The budget is someone else 's problem .
Plus , if the script is good enough , love will find a way .
It always does .
* And because Storm was written as a TV miniseries , I found myself able to push the envelope without tearing it .
I think it 's the most frightening story I 've ever written for film , and in most cases I was able to build in the scares without allowing Standards and Practices cause to scream at me too much.1 I have worked with director Mick Garris three times first on the theatrical film Sleepwalkers , then on the miniseries of The Stand and The Shining .
I sometimes joke that we 're in danger of becoming the Billy Wilder and I.A.L .
Diamond of the horror genre .
He was my first choice to direct Storm of the Century , because I like him , respect him , *And , I thought , what the hell if Storm is never made because it budgets out at too high a number , I 'll do it as a book after all .
I found the idea of novelizing my own unproduced screenplay quite amusing .
1 ln the end , S and P were reduced to screaming about some fairly petty shit .
In Part One , for instance , a fisherman says that the approaching bad weather is apt to be `` one mother of a storm . ''
S and P insisted the line be changed , perhaps believing this was my sly way of implying `` one motherfucker of a storm , '' thus further corrupting American morals , causing more schoolyard shootings , etc .
I immediately made one of my whining calls , pointing out the phrase `` the mother of all ... '' had been originated by Saddam Hussein and had since passed into popular usage .
After some consideration , Standards and Practices allowed the phrase , only insisting `` the dialogue not be delivered in a salacious way . ''
Absolutely not .
Salacious dialogue on network TV is reserved for shows like 3rd Rock from the Sun and Dharma and Greg .
and know what he can do .
Mick had other fish to fry , however ( the world would be a much simpler place if people would just drop everything and come running when I need them ) , and so Mark Carliner and I went hunting for a director .
Around this time I had snagged a direct-to-video film called The Twilight Man from the rental place down the street from my house .
I 'd never heard of it , but it looked atmospheric and starred the always reliable Dean Stockwell .
It seemed like the perfect Tuesday evening time-passer , in other words .
I also grabbed Rambo , a proven commodity , in case The Twilight Man should prove to be a lemon , but Rambo never got out of the box that night .
Twilight Man was low-budget ( it was an original made for the Starz cable network , I found out later ) , but it was nifty as hell just the same .
Tim Matheson also starred , and he projected some of the qualities I hoped to see in Storm 's Mike Anderson : goodness and decency , yes ... but with a sense of latent violence twisting through the character like a streak of iron .
Even better , Dean Stockwell played a wonderfully quirky villain : a soft-spoken , courtly southerner who uses his computer savvy to ruin a stranger 's life ... all because the stranger has asked him to put out his cigar !
The lighting was moody and blue , the computer gimmickry was smartly executed , the pace was deftly maintained , and the performance levels were very high .
I reran the credits and made a note of the director 's name , Craig R. Baxley .
I knew it from two other things : a good cable-TV movie about Brigham Young starring Charlton Heston as Young , and a not-so-good SF movie , / Come in Peace , starring Dolph Lundgren .
( The most memorable thing about that film was the protagonist 's final line to the cyborg : `` You go in pieces . '' )
I talked with Mark Carliner , who looked at The Twilight Man , liked it , and discovered Baxley was available .
I followed up with a call of my own and sent Craig the three hundred-page script of Storm .
Craig called back , excited and full of ideas .
I liked his ideas and I liked his enthusiasm ; what I liked most of all was that the sheer size of the project did n't seem to faze him .
The three of us met in Portland , Maine , in February of 1997 , had dinner at my daughter 's restaurant , and pretty much closed the deal .
Craig Baxley is a tall , broad-shouldered man , handsome , prone to Hawaiian shirts , and probably a few years older than he looks ( at a glance you 'd guess he was about forty , but his first theatrical work was Action Jackson , starring Carl Weathers , and so he 's got to be older than that ) .
He has the laid-back , `` no problem , man '' attitude of a California surfer ( which he once was ; he has also worked as a Hollywood stunt-player ) and a sense of humor drier than an Errol Flynn foreign legion flick .
The low-key attitude and the nah , I 'm just fuckin ' with you sense of humor tend to obscure the real Craig Baxley , who is focused , dedicated , imaginative , and a touch autocratic ( show me a director without at least a dash of Stalin and I 'll show you a bad director ) .
What impressed me most about the dailies as Storm of the Century began its long march in February of 1998 was where Craig called `` Cut ! ''
At first it 's unsettling , and then you realize he 's doing what only the most visually gifted directors are capable of : cutting in the camera .
As I write this I have begun to see the first `` outputs '' sequences of cut footage on videotape and thanks to Craig 's direction , the show seems almost to be assembling itself .
It 's risky to assume too much too soon ( remember the old newspaper headline `` DEWEY DEFEATS TRUMAN '' ) , but based on early returns , I 'd say that what you 're about to read bears an eerie resemblance to what you will see when ABC telecasts Storm of the Century .
My fingers are still crossed , but I think it works .
I think it may even be extraordinary .
I hope so , but it 's best to be realistic .
Huge amounts of work go into the making of most films , including those made for television , and very few are extraordinary ; given the number of people involved , I suppose it 's amazing that any of them work at all .
Still , you ca n't shoot me for hoping , can you ?
The teleplay of Storm was written between December of 1996 and February of 1997 .
By March of 1997 , Mark and Craig and I were sitting at dinner in my daughter Naomi 's restaurant ( closed now , alas ; she 's studying for the ministry ) .
By June I was looking at sketches of Andre Linoge 's wolfs head cane , and by July I was looking at storyboards .
See what I mean about TV people wanting to make shows instead of lunch reservations ?
Exteriors were filmed in Southwest Harbor , Maine , and in San Francisco .
Exteriors were also filmed in Canada , about twenty miles north of Toronto , where Little Tall Island 's main street was re-created inside an abandoned sugar-refining factory .
For a month or two that factory in the town of Oshawa became one of the world 's largest soundstages .
Little Tail 's studio main street went through three carefully designed stages of snow-dressing , from a few inches to total burial .
* When a group of Southwest Harbor natives on a bus trip visited the Oshawa stage , they were visibly staggered by what they saw when they were escorted through the defunct factory 's tall metal doors .
It must have been like going home again in the blink of an eye .
There are days when making movies has all the glamour of bolting together the rides at a county fair ... but there are other days when the magic is so rich it dazzles you .
The day the people from Southwest Harbor visited the set was one of those days .
Filming commenced in late February of 1998 , on a snowy day in Down East Maine .
It finished in San Francisco about eighty shooting days later .
As I write this in mid-July , the cutting and editing processes what 's known as postproduction has just begun .
Optical effects and CGI ( computer graphic imaging ) effects are being built up one layer at a time .
I 'm looking at footage with temporary music tracks ( many of them lifted from Frank Darabont 's film The Shaw-shank Redemption ) , and so is composer Gary Chang , who will do the show 's actual score .
Mark Carliner is jousting with ABC in the matter of telecast dates February of 1999 , a sweeps period , seems the most probable and I 'm watching the cut footage with a contentment that is very rare for me .
The script that follows makes a complete story , one that 's been overlaid with marks we call them `` scenes '' and `` fades '' and `` inserts '' showing the director where to cut the whole into pieces ... because , unless you 're Alfred Hitchcock filming Rope , films are always piecework .
Between March and June of this year , Craig Baxley filmed the script as scripts are usually filmed out of sequence , often with tired actors working in the middle of the night , always under pressure and finished up with a box of pieces called `` the dailies . ''
I can turn from where I 'm sitting and look at my own set of those dailies roughly sixty cassettes in red cardboard cases .
But here is the odd thing : putting the dailies back together again to create the finished show is n't like putting a jigsaw puzzle back together .
It *Our snow consisted of potato flakes and shredded plastic blown in front of giant fans .
The effect is n't perfect ... but it 's the best I 've ever seen during my time in the film business .
What was it I saw when he changed ?
Something bulbous .
Something that shimmered .
Something that stared at me , yes , stared and grinned and was n't a child at all .
It was old and it was evil and ... '' Miss Sidley ? ''
Her head jerked up and a little Oh !
hiccupped involuntarily from her throat .
It was Mr Hanning .
He smiled apologetically .
`` Did n't mean to disturb you . ''
`` Quite all right , '' she said , more curtly than she had intended .
What had she been thinking ?
What was wrong with her ?
`` Would you mind checking the paper towels in the girls ' lav ? ''
`` Surely . ''
She got up , placing her hands against the small of her back .
Mr Hanning looked at her sympathetically .
Save it , she thought .
The old maid is not amused .
Or even interested .
She brushed by Mr Hanning and started down the hall to the girls ' lavatory .
A snigger of boys carrying scratched and pitted baseball equipment grew silent at the sight of her and leaked guiltily out the door , where their cries began again .
Miss Sidley frowned after them , reflecting that children had been different in her day .
Not more polite C children have never had time for that C and not exactly more respectful of their elders ; it was a kind of hypocrisy that had never been there before .
A smiling quietness around adults that had never been there before .
A kind of quiet contempt that was upsetting and unnerving .
As if they were ...
Hiding behind masks ?
Is that it ?
She pushed the thought away and went into the lavatory .
It was a small , L-shaped room .
The toilets were ranged along one side of the longer bar , the sinks along both sides of the shorter one .
As she checked the paper-towel containers , she caught a glimpse of her face in one of the mirrors and was startled into looking at it closely .
She did n't care for what she saw C not a bit .
There was a look that had n't been there two days before , a frightened , watching look .
With sudden shock she realized that the blurred reflection in her glasses of Robert 's pale , respectful face had gotten inside her and was festering .
The door opened and she heard two girls come in , giggling secretly about something .
She was about to turn the comer and walk out past them when she heard her own name .
She turned back to the washbowls and began checking the towel holders again .
`` And then he ... '' Soft giggles .
`` She knows , but ... '' '' Miss Sidley is ... '' Stop it !
Stop that noise !
By moving slightly she could see their shadows , made fuzzy and W-defined by the diffuse light filtering through the frosted windows , holding onto each other with girlish glee .
Another thought crawled up out of her mind .
They knew she was there .
Yes .
Yes they did .
The little bitches knew .
She would shake them .
Shake them until their teeth rattled and their giggles turned to wails , she would thump their heads against the tile walls and she would make them admit that they knew .
That was when the shadows changed .
They seemed to elongate , to flow like dripping tallow , taking on strange hunched shapes that made Miss Sidley cringe back against the porcelain washstands , her heart swelling in her chest .
But they went on giggling .
The voices changed , no longer girlish , now sexless and soulless , and quite , quite evil .
A slow , turgid sound of mindless humor that flowed around the corner to her like sewage .
She stared at the hunched shadows and suddenly screamed at them .
The scream went on and on , swelling in her head until it attained a pitch of lunacy .
And then she fainted .
The giggling , like the laughter of demons , followed her down into darkness .
She could not , of course , tell them the truth .
Miss Sidley knew this even as she opened her eyes and looked up at the anxious faces of Mr Hanning and Mrs Crossen .
Mrs Crossen was holding the bottle of smelling salts from the gymnasium first-aid kit under her nose .
Mr Hanning turned around and told the two little girls who were looking curiously at Miss Sidley to go home now , please .
They both smiled at her C slow , we-have-a-secret smiles C and went out .
Very well , she would keep their secret .
For awhile .
She would not have people thinking her insane , or that the first feelers of senility had touched her early .
She would play their game .
Until she could expose their nastiness and rip it out by the roots .
`` I 'm afraid I slipped , '' she said calmly , sitting up and ignoring the excruciating pain in her back .
`` A patch of wetness . ''
`` This is awful , '' Mr Hanning said .
`` Terrible .
Are you ... '' '' Did the fall hurt your back , Emily ? ''
Mrs Crossen interrupted .
Mr Hanning looked at her gratefully .
Miss Sidley got up , her spine screaming in her body .
`` No , '' she said .
`` In fact , the fall seems to have worked some minor chiropractic miracle .
My back has n't felt this well in years . ''
`` We can send for a doctor ... '' Mr Hanning began .
`` Not necessary . ''
Miss Sidley smiled at him coolly .
`` I 'll call you a taxi from the office . ''
`` You 'll do no such thing , '' Miss Sidley said , walking to the door of the girls ' lav and opening it .
`` I always take the bus . ''
Mr Hanning sighed and looked at Mrs Crossen .
Mrs Crossen rolled her eyes and said nothing .
The next day Miss Sidley kept Robert after school .
He did nothing to warrant the punishment , so she simply accused him falsely .
She felt no qualms ; he was a monster , not a little boy .
She must make him admit it .
Her back was in agony .
She realized Robert knew ; he expected that would help him .
But it would n't .
That was another of her little advantages .
Her back had been a constant pain to her for the last twelve years , and there had been many times when it had been this bad C well , almost this bad .
She closed the door , shutting the two of them in .
For a moment she stood still , training her gaze on Robert .
She waited for him to drop his eyes .
A first-aid kit .
This book I 'm writing in , which is supposed to be a lifeboat inspection log .
That 's a laugh .
Whoever heard of a lifeboat with no FOOD on it ?
The last report written in here is August 8 , 1970 .
Oh , yes , two knives , one dull and one fairly sharp , one combination fork and spoon .
I 'll use them when I eat my supper tonight .
Roast rock .
Ha-ha .
Well , I did get my pencil sharpened .
When I get off this pile of guano-splattered rock , I 'm going to sue the bloody hell out of Paradise Lines , Inc. That alone is worth living for .
And I am going to live .
I 'm going to get out of this .
Make no mistake about it .
I am going to get out of this .
( later ) When I was making my inventory , I forgot one thing : two kilos of pure heroin , worth about $ 350,000 , New York street value .
Here it 's worth el zilcho .
Sort of funny , is n't it ?
Ha-ha !
January 28 Well , I 've eaten if you want to call that eating .
There was a gull perched on one of the rocks at the center of the island .
The rocks are all jumbled up into a kind of mini-mountain there all covered with birdshit , too .
I got a chunk of stone that just fitted into my hand and climbed up as close to it as I dared .
It just stood there on its rock , watching me with its bright black eyes .
I 'm surprised that the rumbling of my stomach did n't scare it off .
I threw the rock as hard as I could and hit it broadside .
It let out a loud squawk and tried to fly away , but I 'd broken its right wing .
I scrambled up after it and it hopped away .
I could see the blood trickling over its white feathers .
The son of a bitch led me a merry , chase ; once , on the other side of the central rockpile , I got my foot caught in a hole between two rocks and nearly fractured my ankle .
I carried it back to my `` camp , '' but even before I plucked and gutted it , I used iodine to swab the laceration its beak had made .
Birds carry all sorts of germs , and the last thing I need now is an infection .
The operation on the gull went quite smoothly , I could not cook it , alas .
Absolutely no vegetation or driftwood on the island and the boat has sunk .
So I ate it raw .
My stomach wanted to regurgitate it immediately .
I sympathized but could not allow it .
I counted backward until the nausea passed .
It almost always works .
Can you imagine that bird , almost breaking my ankle and then pecking me ?
If I catch another one tomorrow , I 'll torture it .
I let this one off too easily .
Even as I write , I am able to glance down at its severed head on the sand .
Its black eyes , even with the death-glaze on them , seem to be mocking me .
Do gulls have brains in any quantity ' ?
Are they edible ?
January 29 No chow today .
One gull landed near the top of the rockpile but flew off before I could get close enough to `` throw it a forward pass , '' ha-ha !
I 've started a beard .
Itches like hell .
If the gull comes back and I get it , I 'm going to cut its eyes out before I kill it .
I was one hell of a surgeon , as I believe I may have said .
They drummed me out .
It 's a laugh , really : they all do it , and they ' re so bloody sanctimonious when someone gets caught at it .
Screw you , Jack , I got mine .
The Second Oath of Hippocrates and Hypocrites .
I had enough socked away from my adventures as an intern and a resident ( that 's supposed to be like an officer and a gentleman according to the Oath of Hypocrites , but do n't you believe it ) to set myself up in practice on Park Avenue .
A good thing for me , to ; I had no rich daddy or established patron , as so many of my `` colleagues '' did .
By the time my shingle was out , my father was nine years in his pauper 's grave .
My mother died the year before my license to practice was revoked .
It was a kickback thing .
I had a deal going with half a dozen East Side pharmacists , with two drug supply houses , and with at least twenty other doctors .
Patients were sent to me and I sent patients .
I performed operations and prescribed the correct post-op drugs .
Not all the operations were necessary , but I never performed one against a patient 's will .
And 1 never had a patient look down at what was written on the prescrip blank and say , `` I do n't want this . ''
Listen : they 'd have a hysterectomy in 1965 or a partial thyroid in 1970 , and still be taking painkillers five or ten years later , if you 'd let them .
Sometimes I did .
I was n't the only one , you know .
They could afford the habit .
And sometimes a patient would have trouble sleeping after minor surgery .
Or trouble getting diet pills .
Or Librium .
It could alol be arranged .
Ha !
Yes !
If they had n't gotten it from me , they would have gotten it from someone else .
Then the tax people got to Lowenthal .
That sheep .
They waved five years in his face and he coughed up half a dozen names .
One of them was mine .
They watched me for a while , and by the time they landed , I was worth a lot more than five years .
There were a few other deals , including the prescription blanks , which I had n't given up entirely .
It 's funny , I did n't really need that stuff anymore , but it was a habit .
Hard to give up that extra sugar .
Well , I knew some people .
I pulled some strings .
And I threw a couple of people to the wolves .
Nobody I liked , though .
Everyone I gave to the leds was a real son of a bitch .
Christ , I 'm hungry .
January 30 No gulls today .
Reminds me of the signs you 'd sometimes see on the pushcarts back in the neighborhood , so TOMATOES TODAY .
I walked out into the water up to my waist with the sharp knife in my hand .
I stood completely still in that one place with the sun beating down on me for four hours .
Twice I thought I was going to faint , but I counted backward until it passed .
I did n't see one fish .
Not one .
January 31 Killed another gull , the same way I did the first .
I was too hungry to torture it the way I had been promising myself .
The courts ca n't make war on American soil , and we ca n't allow humans to worship us as deities . ''
`` I was at the signing of the treaty , Meredith .
I know what it said . ''
I smiled at him , and it seemed strange that I could still smile .
The thought made the smile wilt a little around the edges , but I guess it was a good sign .
`` You remember the Magna Carta . ''
`` That was a human thing , and had little to do with us . ''
I squeezed his hand .
`` I was making a point , Doyle . ''
He smiled , and nodded .
`` My emotions make me slow . ''
`` Me , too , '' I said .
The door behind him opened .
There were two men in the doorway , one tall and one short .
Sholto , King of the sluagh , Lord of that Which Passes Between , was as tall as Doyle , and had long , straight hair that fell toward his ankles , but the color was white-blond , and his skin was like mine , moonlight pale .
Sholto 's eyes were three colors of yellow and gold , as if autumn leaves from three different trees had been melted down to color his eyes , then everything had been edged in gold .
The sidhe always have the prettiest eyes .
He was as fair of face as any at the courts , except for my lost Frost .
The body that showed under the t-shirt and jeans he 'd worn as part of his disguise when he came to save me seemed to cling to a body as lovely as the face , but I knew that at least part of it was illusion .
Starting at his upper ribs , Sholto had extra bits , tentacles , because , though his mother had been high-court nobility , his father had been one of the nightflyers , part of the sluagh , and the last wild hunt of faerie .
Well , the last wild hunt until the wild magic had returned .
Now , things of legend were returning , and Goddess alone knew what was real again , and what was still to return .
Until he had a coat or jacket thick enough to hide the extra bits , he would use magic , glamour , to hide the extras .
No reason to scare the nurses .
It was his lifetime of having to hide his differences that had made him good enough at illusion to risk coming to my rescue .
You do not go lightly against the King of Light and Illusion with illusion as your only shield .
He smiled at me , and it was a smile I had never seen on Sholto 's face until the moment at the ambulance when he had held my hand , and told me he knew he would be a father .
The news seemed to have softened some harshness that had always been there in his handsome body .
He seemed the proverbial new man , as he walked toward us .
Rhys was not smiling .
At 5'6 '' , he was the shortest full-blooded sidhe I 'd ever met .
His skin was moonlight pale , like Sholto 's , like mine , like Frost 's .
Rhys had removed the fake beard and mustache he 'd worn inside the faerie mound .
He 'd worked at the detective agency in L.A. with me , and he 'd loved disguises .
He was good at them , too , better than at illusion .
But he 'd had enough illusion to hide the fact that he only had one eye .
The remaining eye was three circles of blue , as beautiful as any in the court , but where his left eye had once lain was white scar tissue .
He usually wore a patch in public , but tonight his face was bare , and I liked that .
I wanted to see the faces of my men with nothing hidden tonight .
Doyle moved enough so Sholto could put a chaste kiss against my cheek .
Sholto was n't one of my regular lovers .
In fact , we 'd only been together once , but as the old saying goes , once is enough .
One of the children I carried was part his , but we were new around each other , because in effect we 'd only had one date .
It had been a hell of a first date , but still , we did n't really know each other yet .
Rhys came to stand at the foot of the bed .
His curly white hair , which fell to his waist , was still back in the ponytail he 'd worn to match his own jeans and t-shirt .
His face was very solemn .
It was n't like him .
Once he 'd been Cromm Cruach , and before that he 'd been a god of death .
He would n't tell me who , but I had enough hints to make guesses .
He 'd told me that Cromm Cruach was god enough ; he did n't need more titles .
`` Who gets to challenge him to the duel ? ''
Rhys asked .
`` Meredith has told me no , '' Doyle said .
`` Oh , good , '' Rhys said .
`` I get to do it . ''
`` No , '' I said , `` and I thought you were afraid of Taranis . ''
`` I was , maybe I still am , but we ca n't let this go , Merry , we ca n't . ''
`` Why ?
Because your pride is hurt ? ''
He gave me a look .
`` Give me more credit than that . ''
`` I will challenge him , then , '' Sholto said .
`` No , '' I said .
`` No one is to challenge him to a duel , or to kill him in any other way . ''
The three men looked at me .
Doyle and Rhys knew me well enough to be speculative .
They knew I had a plan .
Sholto did n't know me that well yet .
He was just angry .
`` We ca n't let this insult stand , Princess .
He has to pay . ''
`` I agree , '' I said , `` and since he brought in the human lawyers when he charged Rhys , Galen , and Abeloec with attacking one of his nobles , we use the human law .
We get his DNA , and we charge him with my rape . ''
Sholto said , `` And what , he will risk jail time ?
Even if he would allow himself to be put in human jail , it would not be enough punishment for what he has done to you . ''
`` No , it 's not , but it 's the best we can do under the law . ''
`` Human law , '' Sholto said .
`` Yes , human law , '' I said .
`` Under our laws , '' Doyle said , `` we are within our right to challenge him and slay him . ''
`` That works for me , '' Rhys said .
`` I 'm the one he raped .
I 'm the one who is about to be queen , if we can keep our enemies from killing me .
I say what Taranis 's punishment will be . ''
My voice grew a little strident at the end , and I had to stop and take a breath , or two .
Doyle 's face betrayed nothing .
`` You have thought of something , My Princess .
You are already planning how this will help our cause . ''
`` Help our court .
For centuries the Unseelie Court , our court , has been painted black in the human world .
If we have a public trial accusing the king of the Seelie Court of rape , we will finally convince the humans that we are not the villains of the piece , '' I said .
Doyle said , `` Spoken like a queen . ''
`` Like a politician , '' Sholto said , and not like it was a compliment .
I gave him the look he deserved .
`` You 're a king , too , of your father 's people .
Would you destroy your entire kingdom for vengeance ? ''
He looked away , then , and there was that line to his face that showed his temper .
But as moody as Sholto was , he did n't hold a candle to Frost .
He had been my moody boy .
Rhys came to the bedside .
Then , with a nimbleness he would n't have believed even a week ago , he stepped onto one of the chairs and from the chair to the table-top .
Once on the table , he lifted the skoldpaddavnth his fingers supporting the turtle 's flat undershell , giving them all a good look at it .
I could croon something , he thought .
Maybe `` Moonlight Becomes You '' or `` Left My Heart in San Francisco . ''
At that point they had been inside the Dixie Pig for exactly thirty-four seconds .
FIVE High school teachers faced with a large group of students in study hall or a school assembly will tell you that teenagers , even when freshly showered and groomed , reek of the hormones which their bodies are so busy manufacturing .
Any group of people under stress emits a similar stink , and Jake , with his senses tuned to the most exquisite pitch , smelled it here .
When they passed the maitre d 's stand ( Blackmail Central , his Dad liked to call such stations ) , the smell of the Dixie Pig 's diners had been faint , the smell of people coming back to normal after some sort of dust-up .
But when the bird-creature in the far corner shouted , Jake had smelled the patrons more strongly .
It was a metallic aroma , enough like blood to incite his temper and his emotions .
Yes , he saw Tweety Bird knock aside the napkin on his table ; yes , he saw the weapon beneath ; yes , he understood that Callahan , standing on the table , was an easy shot .
That was of far less concern to Jake than the mobilizing weapon that was Tweety Bird 's mouth .
Jake was drawing back his right arm , meaning to fling the first of his nineteen plates and amputate the head in which that mouth resided , when Callahan raised the turtle .
It wo n't work , not in here , Jake thought , but even before the idea had been completely articulated in his mind , he understood it was working .
He knew by the smell of them .
The aggressiveness went out of it .
And the few who had begun to rise from their tables-the red holes in the foreheads of the low people gaping , the blue auras of the vampires seeming to pull in and intensify-sat back down again , and hard , as if they had suddenly lost command of their muscles .
`` Get them , those are the ones Sayre ... '' Then Tweety stopped talking .
His left hand-if you could call such an ugly talon a hand-touched the butt of his high-tech gun and then fell away .
The brilliance seemed to leave his eyes .
`` They 're the ones Sayre ... S-S-Sayre ... `` Another pause .
Then the bird-thing said , `` Oh sai , what is the lovely thing that you hold ? ''
`` You know what it is , '' Callahan said .
Jake was moving and Callahan , mindful of what the boy gunslinger had told him outside- Make sure that every time I look on my right , I see your face-stepped back down from the table to move with him , still holding the turtle high .
He could almost taste the room 's silence , but- But there was another room .
Rough laughter and hoarse , carousing yells-a party from the sound of it , and close by .
On the left .
From behind the tapestry showing the knights and their ladies at dinner .
Something going on back there , Callahan thought , and probably not Elks ' Poker Night .
He heard Oy breathing fast and low through his perpetual grin , a perfect little engine .
And something else .
A harsh raiding sound with a low and rapid clicking beneath .
The combination set Callahan 's teeth on edge and made his skin feel cold .
Something was hiding under the tables .
Oy saw the advancing insects first and froze like a dog on point , one paw raised and his snout thrust forward .
For a moment the only part of him to move was the dark and velvety skin of his muzzle , first twitching back to reveal the clenched needles of his teeth , then relaxing to hide them , then twitching back again .
The bugs came on .
Whatever they were , the Turtle Maturin upraised in the Pere 's hand meant nothing to them .
A fat guy wearing a tuxedo with plaid lapels spoke weakly , almost questioningly , to the bird-thing : `` They were n't to come any further than here , Meiman , nor to leave .
We were told ... '' Oy lunged forward , a growl coming through his clamped teeth .
It was a decidedly un-Oylike sound , reminding Callahan of a comic-strip balloon : Arrrrrr !
`` No ! ''
Jake shouted , alarmed .
`` No , Oy ! ''
At the sound of the boy 's shout , the yells and laughter from behind the tapestry abruptly ceased , as if the folken back there had suddenly become aware that something had changed in the front room .
Oy took no notice of Jake 's cry .
He crunched three of the bugs in rapid succession , the crackle of their breaking carapaces gruesomely clear in the new stillness .
He made no attempt to eat them but simply tossed the corpses , each the size of a mouse , into the air with a snap of the neck and a grinning release of the jaws .
And the others retreated back under the tables .
He was made for this , Callahan thought .
Perhaps once in the long-ago all bumblers were .
Made for it the way some breeds of terrier are made to- A hoarse shout from behind the tapestry interrupted these thoughts : `` Humes ! ''
one voice cried , and then a second : `` Kahumes ! ''
Callahan had an absurd impulse to yell Gesundheit !
Before he could yell that or anything else , Roland 's voice suddenly filled his head .
`` Jake , go . ''
SIX The boy turned toward Pere Callahan , bewildered .
He was walking with his arms crossed , ready to fling the 'Rizas at the first low man or woman who moved .
Oy had returned to his heel , although he was swinging his head ceaselessly from side to side and his eyes were bright with the prospect of more prey .
`` We go together , '' Jake said .
`` They 're buffaloed , Pere !
And we 're close !
They took her through here ... this room ... and then through the kitchen- '' Callahan paid no attention .
Still holding the turtle high ( as one might hold a lantern in a deep cave ) , he had turned toward the tapestry .
The silence from behind it was far more terrible than the shouts and feverish , gargling laughter .
It was silence like a pointed weapon .
And the boy had stopped .
`` Go while you can , '' Callahan said , striving for calmness .
`` Catch up to her if you can .
This is the command of your dinh .
This is also the will of the White . ''
`` But you can't- '' '' Go , Jake ! ''
The low men and women in the Dixie Pig , whether in thrall to the skoldpadda or not , murmured uneasily at the sound of that shout , and well they might have , for it was not Callahan 's voice coming from Callahan 's mouth .
`` You have this one chance and must take it !
Find her !
As dinh I command your Jake 's eyes flew wide at the sound of Roland 's voice issuing from Callahan 's throat .
His mouth dropped open .
He looked around , dazed .
In the second before the tapestry to their left was torn aside , Callahan saw its black joke , what the careless eye would first surely overlook : the roast that was the banquet 's main entree had a human form ; die knights and their ladies were eating human flesh and drinking human blood .
What the tapestry showed was a cannibals ' communion .
Then the ancient ones who had been at their own sup tore aside the obscene tapestry and burst out , shrieking through the great fangs that propped their deformed mouths forever open .
Their eyes were as black as blindness , the skin of their cheeks and brows-even the backs of their hands-tumorous with wild teeth .
Like the vampires in the dining room , they were surrounded with auras , but these were of a poisoned violet so dark it was almost black .
Some sort of ichor dribbled from the corners of their eyes and mouths .
They were gibbering and several were laughing : seeming not to create the sounds but rather to snatch them out of the air like something that could be rent alive .
And Callahan knew them .
Of course he did .
Had he not been sent hence by one of their number ?
Here were the true vampires , the Type Ones , kept like a secret and now loosed on the intruders .
The turde he held up did not slow them in the slightest .
Callahan saw Jake staring , pale , eyes shiny with horror and bulging from their sockets , all purpose forgotten at the sight of these freaks .
Without knowing what was going to come out of his mouth until he heard it , Callahan shouted : `` They 'll kill Oyfirst !
They 'll kill him in front of you and drink his blood ! ''
Oy barked at the sound of his name .
Jake 's eyes seemed to clear at the sound , but Callahan had no time to follow the boy 's fortunes further .
Turtle wo n't stop them , but at least it 's holding the others back .
Bullets wo n't stop them , but- With a sense of deja vu-and why not , he had lived all this before in the home of a boy named Mark Petrie-Callahan dipped into the open front of his shirt and brought out the cross he wore there .
It clicked against the butt of the Ruger and then hung below it .
The cross was lit with a brilliant bluish-white glare .
The two ancient things in the lead had been about to grab him and draw him into their midst .
Officious little prick , officious '' I do n't believe you care much for me , Mr. Torrance .
I little prick , officious- do n't care .
Certainly your feelings toward me play no part in my own belief that you are not right for the job .
During the season that runs from May fifteenth to September thirtieth , the Overlook employs one hundred and ten people full-time ; one for every room in the hotel , you might say .
I do n't think many of them like me and I suspect that some of them think I 'm a bit of a bastard .
They would be correct in their judgment of my character .
I have to be a bit of a bastard to run this hotel in the manner it deserves . ''
He looked at Jack for comment , and Jack flashed the PR smile again , large and insultingly toothy .
Ullman said : `` The Overlook was built in the years 1907 to 1909 .
The closest town is Sidewinder , forty miles east of here over roads that are closed from sometime in late October or November until sometime in April .
A man named Robert Townley Watson built it , the grandfather of our present maintenance man .
Vanderbilts have stayed here , and Rockefellers , and Astors , and Du Pouts .
Four Presidents have stayed in the Presidential Suite .
Wilson , Harding , Roosevelt , and Nixon . ''
`` I would n't be too proud of Harding and Nixon , '' Jack murmured .
Ullman frowned but went on regardless .
`` It proved too much for Mr. Watson , and he sold the hotel in 1915 .
It was sold again in 1922 , in 1929 , in 1936 .
It stood vacant until the end of World War II , when it was purchased and completely renovated by Horace Derwent , millionaire inventor , pilot , film producer , and entrepreneur . ''
`` I know the name , '' Jack said .
`` Yes .
Everything he touched seemed to turn to gold ... except the Overlook .
He funneled over a million dollars into it before the first postwar guest ever stepped through its doors , turning a decrepit relic into a showplace .
It was Derwent who added the roque court I saw you admiring when you arrived . ''
`` Roque ? ''
`` A British forebear of our croquet , Mr. Torrance .
Croquet is bastardized roque .
According to legend , Derwent learned the game from his social secretary and fell completely in love with it .
Ours may be the finest roque court in America . ''
`` I would n't doubt it , '' Jack said gravely .
A roque court , a topiary full of hedge animals out front , what next ?
A life-sized Uncle Wiggly game behind the equipment shed ?
He was getting very tired of Mr. Stuart Ullman , but he could see that Ullman was n't done .
Ullman was going to have his say , every last word of it .
`` When he had lost three million , Derwent sold it to a group of California investors .
Their experience with the Overlook was equally bad .
Just not hotel people .
`` In 1970 , Mr. Shockley and a group of his associates bought the hotel and turned its management over to me .
We have also run in the red for several years , but I 'm happy to say that the trust of the present owners in me has never wavered .
Last year we broke even .
And this year the Overlook 's accounts were written in black ink for the first time in almost seven decades . ''
Jack supposed that this fussy little man 's pride was justified , and then his original dislike washed over him again in a wave .
He said : `` I see no connection between the Overlook 's admittedly colorful history and your feeling that I 'm wrong for the post , Mr .
Ullman . ''
`` One reason that the Overlook has lost so much money lies in the depreciation that occurs each winter .
It shortens the profit margin a great deal more than you might believe , Mr. Torrance .
The winters are fantastically cruel .
In order to cope with the problem , I 've installed a full-time winter caretaker to run the boiler and to heat different parts of the hotel on a daily rotating basis .
To repair breakage as it occurs and to do repairs , so the elements ca n't get a foothold .
To be constantly alert to any and every contingency .
During our first winter I hired a family instead of a single man .
There was a tragedy .
A horrible tragedy . ''
Ullman looked at Jack coolly and appraisingly .
`` I made a mistake .
I admit it freely .
The man was a drunk . ''
Jack felt a slow , hot grin-the total antithesis of the toothy PR grin- stretch across his mouth .
`` Is that it ?
I 'm surprised Al did n't tell you .
I 've retired . ''
`` Yes , Mr. Shockley told me you no longer drink .
He also told me about your last job ... your last position of trust , shall we say ?
You were teaching English in a Vermont prep school .
You lost your temper , I do n't believe I need to be any more specific than that .
But I do happen to believe that Grady 's case has a bearing , and that is why I have brought the matter of your ... uh , previous history into the conversation .
During the winter of 1970-71 , after we had refurbished the Overlook but before our first season , I hired this ... this unfortunate named Delbert Grady .
He moved into the quarters you and your wife and son will be sharing .
He had a wife and two daughters .
I had reservations , the main ones being the harshness of the winter season and the fact that the Gradys would be cut off from the outside world for five to six months . ''
`` But that 's not really true , is it ?
There are telephones here , and probably a citizen 's band radio as well .
And the Rocky Mountain National Park is within helicopter range and surely a piece of ground that big must have a chopper or two . ''
`` I would n't know about that , '' Ullman said .
`` The hotel does have a two-way radio that Mr. Watson will show you , along with a list of the correct frequencies to broadcast on if you need help .
The telephone lines between here and Sidewinder are still aboveground , and they go down almost every winter at some point or other and are apt to stay down for three weeks to a month and a half .
There is a snowmobile in the equipment shed also . ''
`` Then the place really is n't cut off . ''
Mr. Ullman looked pained .
`` Suppose your son or your wife tripped on the stairs and fractured his or her skull , Mr. Torrance .
Would you think the place was cut off then ? ''
Jack saw the point .
A snowmobile running at top speed could get you down to Sidewinder in an hour and a half ... maybe .
A helicopter from the Parks Rescue Service could get up here in three hours ... under optimum conditions .
In a blizzard it would never even be able to lift off and you could n't hope to run a snowmobile at top speed , even if you dared take a seriously injured person out into temperatures that might be twenty-five below-or forty-five below , if you added in the wind chill factor .
`` In the case of Grady , '' Ullman said , `` I reasoned much as Mr. Shockley seems to have done in your case .
Solitude can be damaging in itself .
Better for the man to have his family with him .
If there was trouble , I thought , the odds were very high that it would be something less urgent than a fractured skull or an accident with one of the power tools or some sort of convulsion .
A serious case of the flu , pneumonia , a broken arm , even appendicitis .
Any of those things would have left enough time .
`` I suspect that what happened came as a result of too much cheap whiskey , of which Grady had laid in a generous supply , unbeknownst to me , and a curious condition which the old-timers call cabin fever .
Do you know the term ? ''
Ullman offered a patronizing little smile , ready to explain as soon as Jack admitted his ignorance , and Jack was happy to respond quickly and crisply .
`` It 's a slang term for the claustrophobic reaction that can occur when people are shut in together over long periods of time .
The feeling of claustrophobia is externalized as dislike for the people you happen to be shut in with .
In extreme cases it can result in hallucinations and violence-murder has been done over such minor things as a burned meal or an argument about whose turn it is to do the dishes . ''
Ullman looked rather nonplussed , which did Jack a world of good .
He decided to press a little further , but silently promised Wendy he would stay cool .
`` I suspect you did make a mistake at that .
Norm Bruett had turned to look out the window .
`` Christ on a pony , '' he said .
Stu got out of his chair , leaned over Tommy Wannamaker and Hank Carmichael , and flicked off all eight switches at once , four with each hand .
So he was the only one who did n't see the Chevy as it hit the gas pumps on the upper island and sheared them off .
It plowed into them with a slowness that seemed implacable and somehow grand .
Tommy Wannamaker swore in the Indian Head the next day that the taillights never flashed once .
The Chevy just kept coming at a steady fifteen or so , like the pace car in the Tournament of Roses parade .
The undercarriage screeched over the concrete island , and when the wheels hit it everyone but Stu saw the driver 's head swing limply and strike the windshield , starring the glass .
The Chevy jumped like an old dog that had been kicked and plowed away the hi-test pump .
It snapped off and rolled away , spilling a few dribbles of gas .
The nozzle came unhooked and lay glittering under the fluorescents .
They all saw the sparks produced by the Chevy 's exhaust pipe grating across the cement , and Hap , who had seen a gas station explosion in Mexico , instinctively shielded his eyes against the fireball he expected .
Instead , the Chevy 's rear end flirted around and fell off the pump island on the station side .
The front end smashed into the low-lead pump , knocking it off with a hollow bang .
Almost deliberately , the Chevrolet finished its 360-degree turn , hitting the island again , broadside this time .
The rear end popped up on the island and knocked the regular gas pump asprawl .
And there the Chevy came to rest , trailing its rusty exhaust pipe behind it .
It had destroyed all three of the gas pumps on that island nearest the highway .
The motor continued to run choppily for a few seconds and then quit .
The silence was so loud it was alarming .
`` Holy moly , '' Tommy Wannamaker said breathlessly .
`` Will she blow , Hap ? ''
`` If it was gon na , it already woulda , '' Hap said , getting up .
His shoulder bumped the map case , scattering Texas , New Mexico , and Arizona every whichway .
Hap felt a cautious sort of jubilation .
His pumps were insured , and the insurance was paid up .
Mary had harped on the insurance ahead of everything .
`` Guy must have been pretty drunk , '' Norm said .
`` I seen his taillights , '' Tommy said , his voice high with excitement .
`` They never flashed once .
Holy moly !
If he 'd a been doing sixty we 'd all be dead now . ''
They hurried out of the office , Hap first and Stu bringing up the rear .
Hap , Tommy , and Norm reached the car together .
They could smell gas and hear the slow , clocklike tick of the Chevy 's cooling engine .
Hap opened the driver 's side door and the man behind the wheel spilled out like an old laundry sack .
`` God-damn , '' Norm Bruett shouted , almost screamed .
He turned away , clutched his ample belly , and was sick .
It was n't the man who had fallen out ( Hap had caught him neatly before he could thump to the pavement ) but the smell that was issuing from the car , a sick stench compounded of blood , fecal matter , vomit , and human decay .
It was a ghastly rich sick-dead smell .
A moment later Hap turned away , dragging the driver by the armpits .
Tommy hastily grabbed the dragging feet and he and Hap carried him into the office .
In the glow of the overhead fluorescents their faces were cheesy-looking and revolted .
Hap had forgotten about his insurance money .
The others looked into the car and then Hank turned away , one hand over his mouth , little finger sticking off like a man who has just raised his wineglass to make a toast .
He trotted to the north end of the station 's lot and let his supper come up .
Vic and Stu looked into the car for some time , looked at each other , and then looked back in .
On the passenger side was a young woman , her shift dress hiked up high on her thighs .
Leaning against her was a boy or girl , about three years old .
They were both dead .
Their necks had swelled up like inner tubes and the flesh there was a purple-black color , like a bruise .
The flesh was puffed up under their eyes , too .
They looked , Vic later said , like those baseball players who put lampblack under their eyes to cut the glare .
Their eyes bulged sightlessly .
The woman was holding the child 's hand .
Thick mucus had run from their noses and was now clotted there .
Flies buzzed around them ; lighting in the mucus , crawling in and out of their open mouths .
Stu had been in the war , but he had never seen anything so terribly pitiful as this .
His eyes were constantly drawn back to those linked hands .
He and Vic backed away together and looked blankly at each other .
Then they turned to the station .
They could see Hap , jawing frantically into the pay phone .
Norm was walking toward the station behind them , throwing glances at the wreck over his shoulder .
The Chevy 's driver 's side door stood sadly open .
There was a pair of baby shoes dangling from the rearview mirror .
Hank was standing by the door , rubbing his mouth with a dirty handkerchief .
`` Jesus , Stu , '' he said unhappily , and Stu nodded .
Hap hung up the phone .
The Chevy 's driver was lying on the floor .
`` Ambulance will be here in ten minutes .
Do you figure they 're - ? ''
He jerked his thumb at the Chevy .
`` They 're dead , okay . ''
Vic nodded .
His lined face was yellow-pale , and he was sprinkling tobacco all over the floor as he tried to make one of his shitty-smelling cigarettes .
`` They 're the two deadest people I 've ever seen . ''
He looked at Stu and Stu nodded , putting his hands in his pockets .
He had the butterflies .
The man on the floor moaned thickly in his throat and they all looked down at him .
After a moment , when it became obvious that the man was speaking or trying very hard to speak , Hap knelt beside him .
It was , after all , his station .
Whatever had been wrong with the woman and child in the car was also wrong with this man .
His nose was running freely , and his respiration had a peculiar undersea sound , a churning from somewhere in his chest .
The flesh beneath his eyes was puffing , not black yet , but a bruised purple .
His neck looked too thick , and the flesh had pushed up in a column to give him two extra chins .
He was running a high fever ; being close to him was like squatting on the edge of an open barbecue pit where good coals have been laid .
`` The dog , '' he muttered .
`` Did you put him out ? ''
`` Mister , '' Hap said , shaking him gently .
`` I called the ambulance .
You 're going to be all right . ''
`` Clock went red , '' the man on the floor grunted , and then began to cough , racking chainlike explosions that sent heavy mucus spraying from his mouth in long and ropy splatters .
Hap leaned backward , grimacing desperately .
`` Better roll him over , '' Vic said .
`` He 's goan choke on it . ''
But before they could , the coughing tapered off into bellowsed , uneven breathing again .
His eyes blinked slowly and he looked at the men gathered above him .
`` Where 's ...
this ? ''
`` Arnette , '' Hap said .
'That 's what I 'm doing , Jacky . '
She smiled at him .
'Relaxing and enjoying it . '
He peeked at his watch .
Two hours had passed while they sat in front of the television , and he could not remember anything that had preceded this program .
Jack was getting up to go to bed when the phone rang .
Good old Uncle Morgan Sloat had found them .
Uncle Morgan 's news was never very great , but this was apparently a blockbuster even by Uncle Morgan 's standards .
Jack stood in the middle of the room , watching as his mother 's face grew paler , palest .
Her hand crept to her throat , where new lines had appeared over the last few months , and pressed lightly .
She said barely a word until the end , when she whispered , 'Thank you , Morgan , ' and hung up .
She had turned to Jack then , looking older and sicker than ever .
'Got to be tough now , Jacky , all right ? '
He had n't felt tough .
She took his hand then and told him .
'Uncle Tommy was killed in a hit-and-run accident this afternoon , Jack . '
He gasped , feeling as if the wind had been torn out of him .
'He was crossing La Cienega Boulevard and a van hit him .
There was a witness who said it was black , and that the words WILD CHILD were written on the side , but that was ... was all . '
Lily began to cry .
A moment later , almost surprised , Jack began to cry as well .
All of that had happened three days ago , and to Jack it seemed forever .
5 On September 15th , 1981 , a boy named Jack Sawyer stood looking out at the steady water as he stood on an unmarked beach before a hotel that looked like a castle in a Sir Walter Scott novel .
He wanted to cry but was unable to release his tears .
He was surrounded by death , death made up half the world , there were no rainbows .
The WILD CHILD van had subtracted Uncle Tommy from the world .
Uncle Tommy , dead in L.A. , too far from the east coast , where even a kid like Jack knew he really belonged .
A man who felt he had to put on a tie before going out to get a roast beef sandwich at Arby 's had no business on the west coast at all .
His father was dead , Uncle Tommy was dead , his mother might be dying .
He felt death here , too , at Arcadia Beach , where it spoke through telephones in Uncle Morgan 's voice .
It was nothing as cheap or obvious as the melancholy feel of a resort in the off-season , where one kept stumbling over the Ghosts of Summers Past ; it seemed to be in the texture of things , a smell on the ocean breeze .
He was scared ... and he had been scared for a long time .
Being here , where it was so quiet , had only helped him to realize it - had helped him to realize that maybe Death had driven all the way up I-95 from New York , squinting out through cigarette smoke and asking him to find some bop on the car radio .
He could remember - vaguely - his father telling him that he was born with an old head , but his head did n't feel old now .
Right now , his head felt very young .
Scared , he thought .
I 'm pretty damn scared .
This is where the world ends , right ?
Seagulls coursed the gray air overhead .
The silence was as gray as the air - as deadly as the growing circles under her eyes .
6 When he had wandered into Funworld and met Lester Speedy Parker after he did not quite know how many days of numbly drifting through time , that passive feeling of being on hold had somehow left him .
Lester Parker was a black man with crinkly gray hair and heavy lines cutting through his cheeks .
He was utterly unremarkable now despite whatever he had accomplished in his earlier life as a travelling blues musician .
Nor had he said anything particularly remarkable .
Yet as soon as Jack had walked aimlessly into Funworld 's game arcade and met Speedy 's pale eyes he felt all the fuzziness leave him .
He had become himself again .
It was as if a magical current had passed directly from the old man into Jack .
Speedy had smiled at him and said , 'Well , it looks like I got me some company .
Little travellin man just walked in . '
It was true , he was not on hold anymore : just an instant before , he had seemed to be wrapped in wet wool and cotton candy , and now he was set free .
A silvery nimbus seemed to play about the old man for an instant , a little aureole of light which disappeared as soon as Jack blinked .
For the first time Jack saw that the man was holding the handle of a wide heavy push-broom .
'You okay , son ? '
The handyman put one hand in the small of his back , and stretched backward .
'The world just get worse , or did she get better ? '
'Uh , better , ' Jack said .
'Then you come to the right place , I 'd say .
What do they call you ? '
Little travellin man , Speedy had said that first day , ole Travellin Jack .
He had leaned his tall angular body against the Skee-Ball machine and wrapped his arms around the broom-handle as though it were a girl at a dance .
The man you see here is Lester Speedy Parker , formerly a travellin man hisself , son , hee hee - oh yeah , Speedy knew the road , he knew all the roads , way back in the old days .
Had me a band , Travellin Jack , played the blues .
Git-tar blues .
Made me a few records , too , but I wo n't shame you by asking if you ever heard em .
Every syllable had its own rhythmic lilt , every phrase its rimshot and backbeat ; Speedy Parker carried a broom instead of a guitar , but he was still a musician .
Within the first five seconds of talking to Speedy , Jack had known that his jazz-loving father would have relished this man 's company .
He had tagged along behind Speedy for the better part of three or four days , watching him work and helping out when he could .
Speedy let him bang in nails , sand down a picket or two that needed paint ; these simple tasks done under Speedy 's instructions were the only schooling he was getting , but they made him feel better .
Jack now saw his first days in Arcadia Beach as a period of unrelieved wretchedness from which his new friend had rescued him .
For Speedy Parker was a friend , that was certain - so certain , in fact , that in it was a quantity of mystery .
In the few days since Jack had shaken off his daze ( or since Speedy had shaken it off for him by dispelling it with one glance of his light-colored eyes ) , Speedy Parker had become closer to him than any other friend , with the possible exception of Richard Sloat , whom Jack had known approximately since the cradle .
And now , counteracting his terror at losing Uncle Tommy and his fear that his mother was actually dying , he felt the tug of Speedy 's warm wise presence from just down the street .
Again , and uncomfortably , Jack had his old sense of being directed , of being manipulated : as if a long invisible wire had pulled himself and his mother up to this abandoned place by the sea .
They wanted him here , whoever they were .
Or was that just crazy ?
In his inner vision he saw a bent old man , clearly out of his mind , muttering to himself as he pushed an empty shopping cart down the sidewalk .
A gull screamed in the air , and Jack promised himself that he would make himself talk about some of his feelings with Speedy Parker .
Even if Speedy thought he was nuts ; even if he laughed at Jack .
He would not laugh , Jack secretly knew .
They were old friends because one of the things Jack understood about the old custodian was that he could say almost anything to him .
1 It was a day later , but Jack Sawyer was no wiser .
He had , however , had one of the greatest nightmares of all time last night .
In it , some terrible creature had been coming for his mother - a dwarfish monstrosity with misplaced eyes and rotting , cheesy skin .
'Your mother 's almost dead , Jack , can you say hallelujah ? '
this monstrosity had croaked , and Jack knew - the way you knew things in dreams - that it was radioactive , and that if it touched him , he would die , too .
He had awakened with his body drenched in sweat , on the edge of a bitter scream .
It took the steady pounding of the surf to reacquaint him with where he was , and it was hours before he could go back to sleep .
He had meant to tell his mother about the dream this morning , but Lily had been sour and uncommunicative , hiding in a cloud of cigarette smoke .
It was only as he started out of the hotel coffee shop on some trumped-up errand that she smiled at him a little .
'Think about what you want to eat tonight . '
'Yeah ? '
'Yeah .
Anything but fast food .
I did not come all the way from L.A. to New Hampshire in order to poison myself with hotdogs . '
'Let 's try one of those seafood places in Hampton Beach , ' Jack said .
'Fine .
Go on and play . '
Go on and play , Jack thought with a bitterness utterly unlike him .
Oh yeah , Mom , way to go .
Too cool .
So damned messy , is n't it ?
`` But my point is simply this : When you shoot yourself with a flexible bullet , you really do n't know what the outcome is going to be .
In my case , I went off a bridge and woke up on a trash-littered embankment with a trucker whapping me on the back and pumping my arms up and down like he had only twenty-four hours to get in shape and he had mistaken me for a rowing machine .
For Reg , the bullet was lethal .
He ...
But I 'm telling you a story I have no idea if you want to hear . ''
He looked around at them questioningly in the gathering gloom .
The agent and the agent 's wife glanced at each other uncertainly , and the writer 's wife was about to say she thought they 'd had enough gloomy talk when her husband said , `` I 'd like to hear it .
If you do n't mind telling it for personal reasons , I mean . ''
`` I never have told it , '' the editor said , `` but not for personal reasons .
Perhaps I never had the correct listeners . ''
`` Then tell away , '' the writer said .
`` Paul -- `` His wife put her hand on his shoulder .
`` Do n't you think -- `` '' Not now , Meg . ''
The editor said : ' 'The story came in over the transom , and at that time Lagan 's no longer read unsolicited scripts .
When they came in , a girl would just put them into return envelopes with a note that said 'Due to increasing costs and the increasing inability of the editorial staff to cope with a steadily increasing number of submissions , Logon 's no longer reads unsolicited manuscripts .
We wish you the best of luck in placing your work elsewhere . '
Is n't that a lovely bunch of gobblede-gook ?
It 's not easy to use the word 'increasing ' three times in one sentence , but they did it . ''
`` And if there was no return postage , the story went into the wastebasket , '' the writer said .
`` Right ? ''
`` Oh , absolutely .
No pity in the naked city . ''
An odd expression of unease flitted across the writer 's face .
It was the expression of a man who is in a tiger pit where dozens of better men have been clawed to pieces .
So far this man has n't seen a single tiger .
But he has a feeling that they are there , and that their claws are still sharp .
`` Anyway , '' the editor said , taking out his cigarette case , `` this story came in , and the girl in the mailroom took it out , paper-clipped the form rejection to the first page , and was getting ready to put it in the return envelope when she glanced at the author 's name .
Well , she had read Underworld Figures .
That fall , everybody had read it , or was reading it , or was on the library waiting list , or checking the drugstore racks for the paperback . ''
The writer 's wife , who had seen the momentary unease on her husband 's face , took his hand .
He smiled at her .
The editor snapped a gold Ronson to his cigarette , and in the growing dark they could all see how haggard his face was -- the loose , crocodile-skinned pouches under the eyes , the runneled cheeks , the old man 's jut of chin emerging out of that late-middle-aged face like the prow of a ship .
That ship , the writer thought , is called old age .
No one particularly wants to cruise on it , but the staterooms are full .
The gangholds too , for that matter .
The lighter winked out , and the editor puffed his cigarette meditatively .
`` The girl in the mailroom who read that story and passed it on instead of sending it back is now a full editor at G. P. Putnam 's Sons .
Her name does n't matter ; what matters is that on the great graph of life , this girl 's vector crossed Reg Thorpe 's in the mailroom of Lagan 's magazine .
Hers was going up and his was going down .
She sent the story to her boss and her boss sent it to me .
I read it and loved it .
It was really too long , but I could see where he could pare five hundred words off it with no sweat .
And that would be plenty . ''
`` What was it about ? ''
the writer asked .
`` You should n't even have to ask , '' the editor said .
`` It fits so beautifully into the total context . ''
`` About going crazy ? ''
`` Yes , indeed .
What 's the first thing they teach you in your first college creative-writing course ?
Write about what you know .
Reg Thorpe knew about going crazy , because he was engaged in going there .
The story probably appealed to me because I was also going there .
Now you could say -- if you were an editor -- that the one thing the American reading public does n't need foisted on them is another story about Going Mad Stylishly in America , subtopic A , Nobody Talks to Each Other Anymore .
A popular theme in twentieth-century literature .
All the greats have taken a hack at it and all the hacks have taken an ax to it .
But this story was funny .
I mean , it was really hilarious .
`` I had n't read anything like it before and I have n't since .
The closest would be some of F. Scott Fitzgerald 's stories ... and Gatsby .
The fellow in Thorpe 's story was going crazy , but he was doing it in a very funny way .
You kept grinning , and there were a couple of places in this story -- the place where the hero dumps the lime Jell-O on the fat girl 's head is the best -- where you laugh right out loud .
But they 're jittery laughs , you know .
You laugh and then you want to look over your shoulder to see what heard you .
The opposing lines of tension in that story were really extraordinary .
The more you laughed , the more nervous you got .
And the more nervous you got , the more you laughed ... right up to the point where the hero goes home from the party given in his honor and kills his wife and baby daughter . ''
`` What 's the plot ? ''
the agent asked .
`` No , '' the editor said , `` that does n't matter .
It was just a story about a young man gradually losing his struggle to cope with success .
It 's better left vague .
A detailed plot synopsis would only be boring .
They always are .
`` Anyway , I wrote him a letter .
It said this : 'Dear Reg Thorpe , I 've just read `` The Ballad of the Flexible Bullet '' and I think it 's great .
I 'd like to publish it in Lagan 's early next year , if that fits .
Does $ 800 sound okay ?
Payment on acceptance .
More or less . '
New paragraph . ''
The editor indented the evening air with his cigarette .
`` The story runs a little long , and I 'd like you to shorten it by about five hundred words , if you could .
I would settle for a two-hundred-word cut , if it comes to that .
We can always drop a cartoon . '
Paragraph .
'Call , if you want . '
My signature .
And off the letter went , to Omaha . ''
`` I kept all the correspondence in a special file , '' the editor said .
`` His letters , carbons of mine back .
There was quite a stack of it by the end , including three or four pieces of correspondence from Jane Thorpe , his wife .
I 've read the file over quite often .
No good , of course .
Trying to understand the flexible bullet is like trying to understand how a Mobius strip can have only one side .
That 's just the way things are in this best-of-all-possible worlds .
Yes , I know it all word for word , or almost .
Some people have the Declaration of Independence by heart . ''
`` Bet he called you the next day , '' the agent said , grinning .
'It 'll make a wonderful shot . '
Liz had looked at Thad , questioning and a little horrified .
Then they both had looked at the fake tombstone which had come from New York City ( year-round home of People magazine ) to Castle Rock , Maine ( summer home of Thad and Liz Beaumont ) , with a mixture of amazement and bemused wonder .
It was the inscription to which Thad 's eye kept returning : Not a Very Nice Guy Stripped to its essentials , the story People wanted to tell the breathless celebrity-watchers of America was pretty simple .
Thad Beaumont was a well-regarded writer whose first novel , The.Sudden Dancers , had been nominated for the National Book Award in 1972 .
This sort of thing swung some weight with literary critics , but the breathless celebrity-watchers of America did n't care a dime about Thad Beaumont , who had only published one other novel under his own name since .
The man many of them did care about was n't a real man at all .
Thad had written one huge best-seller and three extremely successful follow-up novels under another name .
The name , ocourse , was George Stark .
Jerry Harkavay , who was the Associated Press 's entire Waterville staff , had been the first to break the George Stark story wide after Thad 's agent , Rick Cowley , gave it to Louise Booker at Publishers Weekly with Thad 's approval .
Neither Harkavay nor Booker had got the whole story - for one thing , Thad was adamant about not giving that smarmy little prick Frederick Clawson so much as a mention - but it was still good enough to rate a wider circulation it than either the AP wire service or the book-publishing industry 's trade magazine could give .
Clawson , Thad had told Liz and Rick , was not the story - he was just the asshole who was forcing them to go public with the story .
In the course of that first interview , Jerry had asked him what sort of a fellow George Stark was .
'George , ' Thad had replied , 'was n't a very nice guy . '
The quote had run at the top of Jerry 's piece , and it had given the Myers woman the inspiration to actually commission a fake tombstone with that line on it .
Weird world .
Weird , weird world .
All of a sudden , Thad burst out laughing again .
2 There were two lines of white type on the black field below the picture of Thad and Liz in one of Castle Rock 's finer boneyards .
THE DEAR DEPARTED WAS EXTREMELY CLOSE TO THESE TWO PEOPLE , read the first .
SO WHY ARE THEY LAUGHING ?
read the second .
'Because the world is one strange fucking place , ' Thad Beaumont said , and snorted into one cupped hand .
Liz Beaumont was n't the only one who felt vaguely uneasy about this odd little burst of publicity .
He felt a little uneasy himself .
All the same , he found it difficult to stop laughing .
He 'd quit for a few seconds and then a fresh spate of guffaws would burst out of him as his eye caught on that line - Not a Very Nice Guy - again .
Trying to quit was like trying to plug the holes in a poorly constructed earthen dam ; as soon as you got one leak stopped up , you saw a new one someplace else .
Thad suspected there was something not quite right about such helpless laughter - it was a form of hysteria .
He knew that humor rarely if ever had anything to do with such fits .
In fact , the cause was apt to be something quite the opposite of funny .
Something to be afraid of , maybe .
You 're afraid of a goddam article in People magazine ?
Is that what you 're thinking ?
Dumb .
Afraid of being embarrassed , of having your colleagues in the English Department look at those pictures and think you 've lost the poor cracked handful of marbles you had ?
No .
He had nothing to fear from his colleagues , not even the ones who had been there since dinosaurs walked the earth .
He finally had tenure , and also enough money to face life as -.flourish of trumpets , please !
- a full-time writer if he so desired ( he was n't sure he did ; he did n't care much for the bureaucratic and administrative aspects of university life , but the teaching part was just fine ) .
Also no because he had passed beyond caring much about what his colleagues thought of him some years ago .
He cared about what his friends thought , yes , and in some cases his friends , Liz 's friends , and the friends they had in common happened to be colleagues , but he thought those people were also apt to think it was sort of a hoot .
If there was anything to be afraid of , it was - Stop it , his mind ordered in the dry , stern tone that had a way of causing even the most obstreperous of his undergrad English students to fall pale and silent .
Stop this foolishness right now .
No good .
Effective as that voice might be when he used it on his students , it wielded no power over Thad himself .
He looked down again at that picture and this time his eye paid no attention to the faces of his wife and himself , mugging cheekily at each other like a couple of kids performing an initiation stunt .
GEORGE STARK 1975 - 1988 Not a Very Nice Guy That was what made him uneasy .
That tombstone .
That name .
Those dates .
Most of all that sour epitaph , which made him bellow laughter but was not , for some reason , one bit funny underneath the laughter .
That name .
That epitaph .
'Does n't matter , ' Thad muttered .
'Motherfucker 's dead now . '
But the uneasiness remained .
When Liz came back in with a freshly changed and dressed twin curled in each arm , Thad was bent over the story again .
'Did I murder him ? '
Thaddeus Beaumont , once hailed as America 's most promising novelist and a National Book Award nominee for The Sudden Dancers in 1972 , repeats the question thoughtfully .
He looks slightly bemused .
'Murder , ' he says again , softly , as if the word had never occurred to him ... even though murder was almost all his'dark half , ' as Beaumont calls George Stark , did think about .
From the wide-mouthed mason jar beside his old-fashioned Remington 32 typewriter , he draws a Berol Black Beauty pencil ( all Stark would write with , according to Beaumont ) and begins to gnaw lightly on it .
From the look of the dozen or so other pencils in the mason jar , the gnawing is a habit .
'No , ' he says at last , dropping the pencil back into the jar .
'I did n't murder him . '
He looks up and smiles .
Beaumont is thirty-nine , but when he smiles in that open way , he might be mistaken for one of his own undergrads .
'George died of natural causes . '
Beaumont says George Stark was his wife 's idea .
Elizabeth Stephens Beaumont , a cool and lovely blonde , refuses to take full credit .
'All I did , ' she says , 'was suggest he write a novel under another name and see what happened to it .
Thad was.suffering from serious writer 's block , and he needed a jumpstart .
And really ' - she laughs - 'George Stark was there all along .
I 'd seen signs of him in some of the unfinished stuff that Thad did from time to time .
It was just a case of getting him to come out of the closet . '
According to many of his contemporaries , Beaumont 's problems went a little further than writer 's block .
At least two well-known writers ( who refused to be quoted directly ) say that they were worried about Beaumont 's sanity during that crucial period between the first book and the second .
One says he believes Beaumont may have attempted suicide following the publication of The Sudden Dancers , which earned more critical acclaim than royalties .
Asked if he ever considered suicide , Beaumont only shakes his head and says , 'That 's a stupid idea .
The real problem was n't popular acceptance ; it was writer 's block .
And dead writers have a terminal case of that . '
Meanwhile , Liz Beaumont kept 'lobbying ' - Beaumont 's word - for the idea of a pseudonym .
'She said I could kick up my heels for once , if I wanted to .
Write any damn thing I pleased without The New York Times Book Review looking over my shoulder the whole time I wrote it .
She said I could write a Western , a mystery , a science fiction story .
Or I could write a crime novel . '
Thad Beaumont grins .
'I think she put that one last on purpose .
She knew Id been fooling around with an idea for a crime novel , although I could n't seem to get a handle on it .
'The idea of a pseudonym had this funny draw for me .
It felt free , somehow - like a secret escape hatch , if you see what I mean .
'But there was something else , too .
Something that 's very hard to explain . '
Beaumont stretches a hand out toward the neatly sharpened Berols in the mason jar , then withdraws it .
He looks off toward the window-wall at the back of his study , which gives on a spring spectacular of greening trees .
'Thinking about writing under a pseudonym was like thinking bout being invisible , ' he finally says almost hesitantly .
'The More I played with the idea , the more I felt that I would be ... well ... reinventing myself . '
His hand steals out and this time succeeds in filching one of the pencils from the mason jar while his mind is otherwise engaged .
Thad turned the page and then looked up at the twins in their double high chair .
'Us pimps make biiig money , baby .
Just let me get my coat and we 're off . '
But is that love ?
I mean , is that all there is to it ?
Even when you learned to ride your two-wheeler , you had to fall off a few times and scrape both knees .
Call it a rite of passage .
And that was just a little thing .
' Gon na use the bathroom , ' he called to her .
'Uh-huh . '
She smiled a little .
Johnny was one of those people who invariably mentioned their nature calls -God knew why .
She went over to the window and looked out on Main Street .
Kids were pulling into the parking lot next to O'Mike 's , the local pizza-and-beer hangout .
She suddenly wished she were back with them , one of them , with this confusing stuff behind her - or still ahead of her .
The university was safe .
It was a kind of never-never land where everybody , even the teachers , could be a part of Peter Pan 's band and never grow up .
And there would always be a Nixon or an Agnew to play Captain Hook .
She had met Johnny when they started teaching in September , but she had known his face from the Ed courses they had shared .
She had been pinned to a Delta Tau Delta , and none of the judgments that applied to Johnny had applied to Dan .
He had been almost flawlessly handsome , witty in a sharp and restless way that always made her a trifle uncomfortable , a heavy drinker , a passionate lover .
Sometimes when he drank he turned mean .
She rememberd a night in Bangor 's Brass Rail when that had happened .
The man in the next booth had taken joking issue with something Dan had been saying about the UMO football team , and Dan had asked him if he would like to go home with his head on backward .
The man had apologized , but Dan had n't wanted an apology ; he had wanted a fight .
He began to make personal remarks about the woman with the other man .
Sarah had put her hand on Dan 's arm and asked him to stop .
Dan had shaken her hand off and had looked at her with a queer flat light in his grayish eyes that made any other words she might have spoken dry up in her throat .
Eventually , Dan and the other guy went outside and Dan beat him up .
Dan had beaten him until the other man , who was in his late thirties and getting a belly , had screamed .
Sarah had never heard a man scream before -she never wanted to hear it again .
They had to leave quickly because the bartender saw how it was going and called the police .
She would have gone home alone that night ( oh ?
are you sure ?
her mind asked nastily ) , but it was twelve miles back to the campus and the buses had stopped running at six and she was afraid to hitch .
Dan did n't talk on the way back .
He had a scratch on one cheek .
Just one scratch .
When they got back to Hart Hall , her dorm , she told him she did n't want to see him anymore .
'Any way you want it , babe , ' he said with an indifference that had chilled her - and the second time he called after the Brass Rail incident she had gone out with him .
Part of her had hated herself for that .
It had continued all that fall semester of her senior year .
He had frightened and attracted her at the same time .
He was her first real lover , and even now , two days shy of Halloween 1970 , he had been her only real lover .
She and Johnny had not been to bed .
Dan had been very good .
He had used her , but he had been very good .
He would not take any precautious and so she had been forced to go to the university infirmary , where she talked fumblingly about painful menstruation and got the pill .
Sexually , Dan had dominated her all along .
It had ended swiftly , early this year .
He flunked out .
'Where will you be going ? '
she asked him timidly , sitting on his roomie 's bed as he threw things into two suitcases .
She had wanted to ask other , more personal questions .
Will you be near here ?
Will you take a job ?
Take night classes ?
Is there a place for me in your plans ?
That question , above all others , she had not been able to ask .
Because she was n't prepared for any answer .
The answer he gave to her one neutral question was shocking enough .
'Vietnam , I guess . '
'What ? '
He reached onto a shelf , thumbed briefly through the papers there , and tossed her a letter .
It was from the induction center in Bangor : an order to report for his physical exam .
'Ca n't you get out of it ? '
'No .
Maybe .
I do n't know . '
He lit a cigarette .
'I do n't think I even want to try . '
She had stared at him , shocked .
'I 'm tired of this scene .
College and get a job and find a little wifey .
You 've been applying for the little wifey spot , I guess .
And do n't think I have n't thought it over .
It would n't work .
You know it would n't , and so do I .
We do n't fit , Sarah . '
She had fled then , all her questions answered , and she never saw him again .
She saw his roommate a few times .
He got three letters from Dan between January and June .
He was inducted and sent down south somewhere for basic training .
And that was the last the roommate had heard .
It was the last Sarah Bracknell heard , too .
At first she thought she was going to be okay .
All those sad , torchy songs , the ones you always seem to hear on the car radio after midnight , they did n't apply to her .
Or the cliches about the end of the affair or the crying jags .
She did n't pick up a guy on the rebound or start doing the bars .
Most evenings that spring she spent studying quietly in her dorm room .
It was a relief .
It was n't messy .
It was only after she met Johnny - at a freshman mixer dance last month ; they were both chaperoning , purely by luck of the draw that she realized what a horror her last semester at school had been .
It was the kind of thing you could n't see when you were in it , it was too much a part of you .
Two donkeys meet at a hitching rail in a western town .
One of them is a town donkey with nothing on his back but a saddle .
The other is a prospector 's donkey , loaded down with packs , camping and cooking gear , and four fifty-pound sacks of ore. His back is bent into a concertina shape from the weight .
The town donkey says , That 's quite a load you got there .
And the prospector 5 donkey says , What load ?
Most would not have been able to tell the difference between the two , but the gunslinger knew each just as well as a mother knows which of her identical twins is which .
He had been travelling with these waterskins for a long , long time .
Water sloshed inside .
That was goodDa gift .
Either the creature which had attacked him or any of the others could have torn this or the other open with one casual bite or slice of claw , but none had and the tide had spared it .
Of the creature itself there was no sign , although the two of them had finished far above the tide-line .
Perhaps other predators had taken it ; perhaps its own kind had given it a burial at sea , as the elaphaunts , giant creatures of whom he had heard in childhood stories , were reputed to bury their own dead .
He lifted the waterskin with his left elbow , drank deeply , and felt some strength come back into him .
The right boot was of course ruined ... but then he felt a spark of hope .
The foot itself was intactDscarred but intactDand it might be possible to cut the other down to match it , to make something which would last at least awhile ... . Faintness stole over him .
He fought it but his knees unhinged and he sat down , stupidly biting his tongue .
You wo n't fall unconscious , he told himself grimly .
Not here , not where another of those things can come back tonight and finish the job .
So he got to his feet and tied the empty skin about his waist , but he had only gone twenty yards back toward the place where he had left his guns and purse when he fell down again , half-fainting .
He lay there awhile , one cheek pressed against the sand , the edge of a seashell biting against the edge of his jaw almost deep enough to draw blood .
He managed to drink from the waterskin , and then he crawled back to the place where he had awakened .
There was a Joshua tree twenty yards up the slopeDit was stunted , but it would offer at least some shade .
To Roland the twenty yards looked like twenty miles .
Nonetheless , he laboriously pushed what remained of his possessions into that little puddle of shade .
He lay there with his head in the grass , already fading toward what could be sleep or unconsciousness or death .
He looked into the sky and tried to judge the time .
Not noon , but the size of the puddle of shade in which he rested said noon was close .
He held on a moment longer , turning his right arm over and bringing it close to his eyes , looking for the telltale red lines of infection , of some poison seeping steadily toward the middle of him .
The palm of his hand was a dull red .
Not a good sign .
Ijerk off left-handed , he thought , at least that 's something .
Then darkness took him , and he slept for the next sixteen hours with the sound of the Western Sea pounding ceaselessly in his dreaming ears .
3 When the gunslinger awoke again the sea was dark but there was faint light in the sky to the east .
Morning was on its way .
He sat up and waves of dizziness almost overcame him .
He bent his head and waited .
When the faintness had passed , he looked at his hand .
It was infected , all right - a tell-tale red swelling that spread up the palm and to the wrist .
It stopped there , but already he could see the faint beginnings of other red lines , which would lead eventually to his heart and kill him .
He felt hot , feverish .
I need medicine , he thought .
But there is no medicine here .
Had he come this far just to die , then ?
He would not .
And if he were to die in spite of his determination , he would die on his way to the Tower .
How remarkable you are , gunslinger !
the man in black tittered inside his head .
How indomitable !
How romantic in your stupid obsession !
`` Fuck you , '' he croaked , and drank .
Not much water left , either .
There was a whole sea in front of him , for all the good it could do him ; water , water everywhere , but not a drop to drink .
Never mind .
He buckled on his gunbelts , tied themDthis was a process which took so long that before he was done the first faint light of dawn had brightened to the day 's actual prologueDand then tried to stand up .
He was not convinced he could do it until it was done .
Holding to the Joshua tree with his left hand , he scooped up the not-quite-empty waterskin with his right arm and slung it over his shoulder .
Then his purse .
When he straightened the faintness washed over him again and he put his head down , waiting , willing .
The faintness passed .
Walking with the weaving , wavering steps of a man in the last stages of ambulatory drunkenness , the gunslinger made his way back down to the strand .
He stood , looking at an ocean as dark as mulberry wine , and then took the last of his jerky from his purse .
He ate half , and this time both mouth and stomach accepted a little more willingly .
He turned and ate the other half as he watched the sun come up over the mountains where Jake had diedDfirst seeming to catch on the cruel and treeless teeth of those peaks , then rising above them .
Roland held his face to the sun , closed his eyes , and smiled .
He ate the rest of his jerky .
He thought : Very well .
I am , in short , a man on the edge of everything .
Which way should he walk ?
He had come from the east ; he could not walk west without the powers of a saint or a savior .
That left north and south .
North .
That was the answer his heart told .
There was no question in it .
North .
The gunslinger began to walk .
4 He walked for three hours .
He fell twice , and the second time he did not believe he would be able to get up again .
Then a wave came toward him , close enough to make him remember his guns , and he was up before he knew it , standing on legs that quivered like stilts .
He thought he had managed about four miles in those three hours .
Now the sun was growing hot , but not hot enough to explain the way his head pounded or the sweat pouring down his face ; nor was the breeze from the sea strong enough to explain the sudden fits of shuddering which sometimes gripped him , making his body lump into gooseflesh and his teeth chatter .
Fever , gunslinger , the man in black tittered .
What 's left inside you has been touched afire .
The red lines of infection were more pronounced now ; they had marched upward from his right wrist halfway to his elbow .
He made another mile and drained his waterbag dry .
He tied it around his waist with the other .
The landscape was monotonous and unpleasing .
The sea to his right , the mountains to his left , the gray , shell-littered sand under the feet of his cut-down boots .
The waves came and went .
He looked for the lobstrosities and saw none .
He walked out of nowhere toward nowhere , a man from another time who , it seemed , had reached a point of pointless ending .
Shortly before noon he fell again and knew he could not get up .
This was the place , then .
Here .
This was the end , after all .
On his hands and knees , he raised his head like a groggy fighter ... and some distance ahead , perhaps a mile , perhaps three ( it was difficult to judge distances along the unchanging reach of the strand with the fever working inside him , making his eyeballs pulse in and out ) , he saw something new .
Something which stood upright on the beach .
What was it ?
( three ) Did n't matter .
( three is the number of your fate ) The gunslinger managed to get to his feet again .
He croaked something , some plea which only the circling sea-birds heard ( and how happy they would be to gobble my eyes from my head , he thought , how happy to have such a tasty bit !
) , and walked on , weaving more seriously now , leaving tracks behind him that were weird loops and swoops .
He kept his eyes on whatever it was that stood on the strand ahead .
When his hair fell in his eyes he brushed it aside .
It seemed to grow no closer .
5 You probably think-if you have bothered to think about it at all-that Roland must have stopped taking Flagg 's strange green drink after the birth of Peter .
Not so .
He still took it occasionally .
This was because he loved Sasha , and wanted to please her .
In some places , people assume that only men enjoy sex , and that a woman would be grateful to be left alone .
The people of Delain , however , held no such peculiar ideas-they assumed that a woman took normal pleasure in that act which produced earth 's most pleasurable creatures .
Roland knew he was not properly attentive to his wife in this matter , but he resolved to be as attentive as he could , even if this meant taking Flagg 's drink .
Only Flagg himself knew how rarely the King went to his Queen 's bed .
Some four years after the birth of Peter , on New Year 's Day , a great blizzard visited Delain .
It was the greatest , save one , in living memory-the other I 'll tell you of later .
Heeding an impulse he could not explain even to himself , Flagg mixed the King a draught of double strength-perhaps it was something in the wind that urged him to do it .
Ordinarily , Roland would have made a grimace at the awful taste and perhaps put it aside , but the excitement of the storm had caused the annual New Year 's Day party to be especially gay , and Roland had become very drunk .
The blazing fire on the hearth reminded him of the dragon 's final explosive breath , and he had toasted the head , which was mounted on the wall , many times .
So he drank the green potion off at a single gulp , and an evil lust fell upon him .
He left the dining hall at once and visited Sasha .
In the course of trying to love her , he hurt her .
`` Please , Husband , '' she cried , sobbing .
`` I 'm sorry , '' he mumbled .
`` Huzzz ... '' He fell heavily asleep beside her and remained insensible for the next twenty hours .
She never forgot the strange smell that had been on his breath that night .
It had been a smell like rotten meat , a smell like death .
Whatever , she wondered , had he been eating ... or drinking ?
Roland never touched Flagg 's drink again , but Flagg was well satisfied , nevertheless .
Nine months later , Sasha gave birth to Thomas , her second son .
She died bringing him forth .
Such things happened , of course , and while everyone was saddened , no one was really surprised .
They believed they knew what had happened .
But the only people in the Kingdom who really knew the circumstances of Sasha 's death were Anna Crookbrows , the midwife , and Flagg , the King 's magician .
Flagg 's patience with Sasha 's meddling had finally run out .
6 Peter was only five when his mother died , but he remembered her dearly .
He thought her sweet , tender , loving , full of mercy .
But five is a young age , and most of his memories were not very specific .
There was one clear memory which he held in his mind , however-it was of a reproach she had made to him .
Much later , the memory of this reproach became vital to him .
It had to do with his napkin .
Every first of Five-month , a feast was held at court to celebrate the spring plantings .
In his fifth year , Peter was allowed to attend for the first time .
Custom decreed that Roland should sit at the head of the table , the heir to the throne at his right hand , the Queen at the foot of the table .
The practical result of this was that Peter would be out of her reach during the meal , and so Sasha coached him carefully beforehand on how he should behave .
She wanted him to show up well , and to be mannerly .
And , of course , she knew that during the meal he would be on his own , because his father had no idea of manners at all .
Some of you may wonder why the task of instructing Peter on his manners fell to Sasha .
Did the boy not have a governess ?
( Yes , as a matter of fact he had two . )
Were there no servants whose service was dedicated wholly to the little prince ?
( Battalions of them . )
The trick was not to get these people to take care of Peter but to keep them away .
Sasha wanted to raise him herself , at least as much as she could .
She had very definite ideas about how her son should be raised .
She loved him dearly and wanted to be with him for her own selfish reasons .
But she also realized that she had a deep and solemn responsibility in the matter of Peter 's nurture .
This little boy would be King someday , and above all else , Sasha wanted him to be good .
A good boy , she thought , would be a good King .
Great banquets in the King 's Hall were not very neat affairs , and most nannies would n't have been very concerned about the little boy 's table manners .
Why , he is to be the King !
they would have said , a little shocked at the idea that they should correct him in such piddling matters .
Who cares if he spills the gravy boat ?
Who cares if he dribbles on his ruff , or even wipes his hands on it ?
Did not King Alan in the old days sometimes vomit into his plate and then command his court jester to come nigh and `` drink this nice hot soup '' ?
Did not King John often bite the heads off live trout and then put the flopping bodies into the bodices of the serving girls ' dresses ?
Will not this banquet end up , as most banquets do , with the participants ' throwing food across the table at each other ?
Undoubtedly it would , but by the time things degenerated to the food-throwing stage , she and Peter would long since have retired .
What concerned Sasha was that attitude of who cares .
She thought it was the worst idea anyone could ever plant in the head of a little boy destined to be King .
So Sasha instructed Peter carefully , and she observed him carefully on the night of the banquet .
And later , as-he lay sleepy in his bed , she talked to him .
Because she was a good mother , she first complimented him lovingly on his behavior and manners-and this was right , because for the most part they had been exemplary .
But she knew that no one would correct him where he went wrong unless she did it herself , and she knew she must do it now , in these few years when he idolized her .
So when she was finished complimenting him , she said : '' You did one thing wrong , Pete , and I never want to see you do it again . ''
Peter lay in his bed , his dark blue eyes looking at her solemnly .
`` What was that , Mother ? ''
`` You did n't use your napkin , '' said she .
`` You left it folded by your plate , and it made me sorry to see it .
You ate the roast chicken with your fingers , and that was fine , because that is how men do it .
But when you put the chicken down again , you wiped your fingers on your shirt , and that is not right . ''
`` But Father ... and Mr. Flagg ... and the other nobles ... '' '' Bother Flagg , and bother all the nobles in Delain ! ''
she cried with such force that Peter cringed back in his bed a little .
He was afraid and ashamed for having made those roses bloom in her cheeks .
`` What your father does is right , for he is the King , and what you do when you are King will always be right .
But Flagg is not King , no matter how much he would like to be , and the nobles are not Kings , and you are not King yet , but only a little boy who forgot his manners . ''
She saw he was afraid , and smiled .
She laid her hand on his brow .
`` Be calm , Peter , '' she said .
`` It is a small thing , but still important-because you 'll be King in your own time .
Now run and fetch your slate . ''
`` But it 's bedtime- '' '' Bother bedtime , too .
Bedtime can wait .
Bring your slate . ''
Peter ran for his slate .
Sasha took the chalk tied to the side and carefully printed three letters .
`` Can you read this word , Peter ? ''
Peter nodded .
There were only a few words that he could read , although he knew most of the Great Letters .
This happened to be one of the words .
`` It says god . ''
`` Yes that 's right .
Now write it backward and see what you find . ''
`` Backward ? ''
Peter said doubtfully .
`` Yes , that 's right . ''
`` We 're going into the house .
You first , Keenan , then Sarge , then me .
Without incident , okay ? ''
We all trooped up the steps and into the kitchen .
It was one of those germless chrome-and-tile jobs that looks like it was spit whole out of some mass-production womb in the Midwest somewhere , the work of hearty Methodist a**holes who all look like Mr. Goodwrench and smell like Cherry Blend tobacco .
I doubt if it ever needed anything so vulgar as cleaning ; Keenan probably just closed the doors and turned on the hidden sprinklers once a week .
I paraded them through into the living room , another treat for the eyes .
A pansy decorator who never got over his crush on Ernest Hemingway had apparently done it .
There was a flagstone fireplace almost as big as an elevator car , a teak buffet table with a moosehead mounted above it , and a drinks cart stashed below a gunrack loaded with premium artillery .
The stereo had turned itself off .
I waved the gun at the couch .
`` One on each end . ''
They sat , Keenan on the right , Sarge on the left .
The Sarge looked even bigger sitting down .
An ugly , dented scar twisted its way through his slightly overgrown crewcut .
I put his weight at about two-thirty , and wondered why a man with the size and physical presence of Mike Tyson owned a Volkswagen .
I grabbed an easy chair and dragged it over Keenan 's quicksand-colored rug until it was in front and between them .
I sat down and let the.45 rest on my thigh .
Keenan stared at it like a bird stares at a snake .
The Sarge , on the other hand , was staring at me like he was the snake and I was the bird .
`` Now what ? ''
he asked .
`` Let 's talk about maps and money , '' I said .
`` I do n't know what you 're talking about , '' Sarge said .
`` All I know is that little boys should n't play with guns . ''
`` How 's Cappy MacFarland these days ? ''
I asked casually .
It did n't get jack shit from the Sarge , but Keenan popped his cork .
`` He knows .
He knows ! ''
The words shot out of him like bullets .
`` Shut up ! ''
the Sarge told him .
`` Shut up your goddam trap ! ''
Keenan moaned a little .
This was one part of the scenario he had never imagined .
I smiled .
`` He 's right , Sarge . ''
I said .
`` I know .
Almost all of it . ''
`` Who are you ? ''
`` No one you know .
A friend of Barney 's . ''
`` Barney who ? ''
Sarge asked indifferently .
`` Barney Google , with the goo-goo-googly eyes ? ''
`` He was n't dead , Sarge .
Not quite dead . ''
Sarge turned a slow and murderous look on Keenan .
Keenan shuddered and opened his mouth .
`` Do n't talk , '' Sarge said to him .
`` Not one f**king word .
I 'll snap your neck like a chicken if you do . ''
Keenan 's mouth shut with a snap .
Sarge looked at me again .
`` What does almost all of it mean ? ''
`` Everything but the fine details .
I know about the armored car .
The island .
Cappy MacFarland .
How you and Keenan and some bastard named Jagger killed Barney .
And the map .
I know about that . ''
`` It was n't the way he told you , '' Sarge said .
`` He was going to cross us . ''
`` He could n't cross the street , '' I said .
`` He was just a patsy who could drive . ''
He shrugged ; it was like watching a minor earthquake .
`` Okay .
Be as dumb as you look . ''
`` I knew Barney had something on as early as last March .
I just did n't know what .
And then one night he had a gun .
This gun .
How did you connect with him , Sarge ? ''
`` A mutual friend -- someone who did time with him .
We needed a driver who knew eastern Maine and the Bar Harbor area .
Keenan and I went to see him and laid it out for him .
He liked it . ''
`` I did time with him in the Shank , '' I said .
`` I liked him .
You could n't help but like him .
He was dumb , but he was a good kid .
He needed a keeper more than a partner . ''
`` George and Lennie , '' Sarge sneered .
`` Good to know you spent your own jail time improving what passes for your mind , sweetheart , '' I said .
`` We were thinking about a bank in Lewiston .
He could n't wait for me to finish doping it out .
So now he 's underground . ''
`` Jeepers , this is really sad , '' Sarge said .
`` I 'm gettin , like , all soft and mushy inside . ''
I picked up the gun and showed him the muzzle , and for a second or two he was the bird and it was the snake .
`` One more wisecrack and I 'll put a bullet in your belly .
Do you believe that ? ''
His tongue flickered in and out with startling quickness , lapped across his lower lip , and disappeared again .
He nodded .
Keenan was frozen .
He looked like he wanted to retch but did n't quite dare .
`` He told me it was big time , a big score , '' I resumed .
`` It is a choice of who they would be slaves to , Ms. Blake .
It is no choice at all . ''
`` Jean-Claude was generous , Malcolm .
By vampire law he could have just killed you and your entire congregation . ''
`` And how would the law , how would you , as a federal marshal , have felt about such slaughter ? ''
`` Are you saying that my being a federal marshal limits Jean-Claude 's options ? ''
`` He values your love , Anita , and you would not love a man that could slaughter my followers . ''
`` You do n't add yourself to that list - why ? ''
`` You are a legal vampire executioner , Anita .
If I broke human law , you would kill me yourself .
You would not fault Jean-Claude for doing the same if I broke vampiric law . ''
`` You think I 'd just let him kill you ? ''
`` I think you would kill me for him , if you felt justified . ''
A small part of me wanted to argue , but he was right .
I 'd been grandfathered in like most of the vamp executioners who had two or more years on the job and could pass the firearms test .
The idea was , making us federal marshals was the quickest way to grant us the ability to cross state lines and to control us more .
Crossing state lines and having a badge was great ; I was n't sure how controlled we were .
Of course , I was the only vampire hunter who was also dating her Master of the City .
Most saw it as a conflict of interest .
Frankly , so did I , but there was n't much I could do about it .
`` You do not argue with me , '' Malcolm said .
`` I ca n't decide if you think I 'm a civilizing influence on Jean-Claude , or a bad one . ''
`` I saw you once as his victim , Anita .
Now I am no longer certain who is the victim , and who the victimizer . ''
`` Should I be offended ? ''
He just looked at me .
`` The last time I was in your church you called me evil , and accused me of black magic .
You called Jean-Claude immoral , and me his whore , or something like that . ''
`` You were trying to take away one of my people to be killed with no trial .
You shot him to death on the church grounds . ''
`` He was a serial killer .
I had an order of execution for everyone involved in those crimes . ''
`` All the vampires , you mean . ''
`` Are you implying that humans or shapeshifters were involved ? ''
`` No , but if they had been , you would never have been allowed to shoot them to death with the police helping you do it . ''
`` I 've had warrants for shapeshifters before . ''
`` But those are rare , Anita , and there are no orders of execution for humans . ''
`` The death penalty still exists , Malcolm . ''
`` After a trial , and years of appeals , if you are human . ''
`` What do you want from me , Malcolm ? ''
`` I want justice . ''
`` The law is n't about justice , Malcolm .
It 's about the law . ''
`` She did not do the crime she is accused of , as our wandering brother Avery Seabrook was innocent of the crime you sought him for . ''
He called any of his church group who joined Jean-Claude `` wanderers . ''
The fact that Avery , the vampire , had a last name meant he was very recently dead , and that he was an American vampire .
Vampires normally only had one name , like Madonna or Cher , and only one vamp per country could have that name .
Duels were fought over the right to use names .
Until now , until America .
We had vampires with last names , unheard of .
`` I cleared Avery .
Legally , I did n't have to . ''
`` No , you could have shot him dead , found out your mistake later , and suffered nothing under the law . ''
`` I did not write this law , Malcolm , I just carry it out . ''
`` Vampires did not write this law either , Anita . ''
`` That 's true , but no human can mesmerize other humans so that they help in their own kidnappings .
Humans ca n't fly off with their victims in their arms . ''
`` And that justifies slaughtering us ? ''
I shrugged again .
I was going to leave this argument alone because I 'd begun to not like that part of my job .
I did n't think vampires were monsters anymore ; it made killing them harder .
It made executing them when they could n't fight back monstrous , with me as the monster .
`` What do you want me to do , Malcolm ?
I have a warrant with Sally Hunter 's name on it .
Witnesses saw her leave Bev Leveto 's apartment .
Ms. Leveto died by vampire attack .
I know it was n't any of Jean-Claude 's vampires .
That leaves yours . ''
Hell , I had her driver 's license picture in the file with the warrant .
I have to admit that having a picture to go with it made me feel more like an assassin .
A picture so I 'd get the right one .
`` Are you so certain of that ? ''
I blinked at him , the slow blink that gave me time to think but did n't look like I was thinking furiously .
`` What are you trying to say , Malcolm ?
I 'm not good at subtle ; just tell me what you came to say . ''
`` Something powerful , someone powerful , came to my church last week .
They hid themselves .
I could not find them in the new faces of my congregation , but I know that someone immensely powerful was there . ''
He leaned forward , his calm exterior cracking around the edges .
`` Do you understand how powerful they would have to be for me to sense them , use all my powers to search the room for them , yet not be able to find them ? ''
I thought about it .
Malcolm was no Master of the City , but he was probably one of the top five most powerful vampires in town .
He 'd be higher , if he were n't so terribly moral .
It limited him in some ways .
I licked my lips , careful of the lipstick , and nodded .
`` Did they want you to know they were there , or was that part an accident ? ''
He actually showed surprise for a moment before he got control of his face .
He played human too much for the media ; he was beginning to lose that stillness of features that the old ones have .
`` I do n't know . ''
Even his voice was no longer smooth .
`` Did the vamp do it to taunt you , or was it arrogance ? ''
He shook his head .
`` I do not know . ''
I had a moment of revelation .
`` You came here because you think Jean-Claude should know , but you ca n't let your congregation see you going to the Master of the City .
It would undermine your whole freewill thing . ''
He settled back into his chair , fighting to keep the anger off his face , and failing .
He was even more scared than I thought , to be losing it this badly in front of someone he disliked .
Hell , he 'd come to me for help .
He was desperate .
Mark glanced to his right and saw the attendants talking to a timid-looking man , persuading him .
At last he took the mask seemed to fall dead on his couch seconds later .
First-timer , Mark thought .
You can always tell .
`` For Carune , it started with a pencil ... some keys ... a wrist watch ... the some mice .
The mice showed him there was a problem ... '' Victor Carune came back to his laboratory in a stumbling fever of excitement .
He thought he knew how Morse had felt , and Alexander Graham Bell , and Edison ... but this was bigger than all of them , and twice he had almost wrecked the truck on the way back from the pet shop in New Paltz , where he had spend his last twenty dollars on nine white mice .
What he had left in the world was ninety-three cents in his right front pocket and the eighteen dollars in his savings account ... but this did not occur to him .
And if it had , it certainly would not have bothered him .
The lab was in a renovated barn at the end of a mile-long dirt road off Route 26 .
It was making the turn onto this road where he had just missed cracking up his Brat pickup truck for the second time .
The gas tank was almost empty and there would be no more for ten days to two weeks , but this did not concern him , either .
His mind was in a delirious whirl .
What had happened was not totally unexpected , no .
One of the reasons the government had funded him even to the paltry tune of twenty thousand a year was because the unrealized possibility had always been there in the field of particle transmission .
But to have it happen like this ... suddenly ... with no warning ... and powered by less electricity than was needed to run a color TV ... God !
Christ !
He brought the Brat to a screech-halt in the dirt of the door yard , grabbed the box on the dirty seat beside him by its grab-handles ( on the box were dogs and cats and hamsters and goldfish and the legend I CAME FROM STACKPOLE 'S HOUSE OF PETS ) and ran for the big double doors .
From inside the box came the scurry and whisk of his test subjects .
He tried to push one of the big doors open along its track , and when it would n't budge , he remembered that he had locked it .
Carune uttered a loud `` Shit ! ''
and fumbled for his keys .
The government commanded that the lab be locked at all times - it was one of the strings they put on their money - but Carune kept forgetting .
He brought his keys out and for a moment simply stared at them , mesmerized , running the ball of his thumb over the notches in the Brat 's ignition key .
He thought again : God !
Christ !
Then he scrabbled through the keys on the ring for the Yale key that unlocked the barn door .
As the first telephone had been used inadvertently - Bell crying into it , `` Watson , come here ! ''
when he spilled some acid on his papers and himself - so the first act of teleportation had occurred by accident .
Victor Carune had teleported the first two fingers of his left hand across the fifty-yard width of the barn .
`` It was not like an electric shock , '' Carune wrote in his one and only article on the subject before the government shut him up .
The article was published , of all places , in Popular Mechanics .
He had sold it to them for seven hundred and fifty dollars in a last-ditch effort to keep the Jaunt a matter of private enterprise .
`` There was none of that unpleasant tingle that one gets if one grasps a frayed lamp cord , for instance .
It was more like the sensation one gets if one puts one 's hand on the casing of some small machine that is working very hard .
The vibration is so fast and light that it is , literally , a tingling sensation .
`` Then I looked down at the portal and saw that my index finger was gone on a diagonal slant through the middle knuckle , and my second finger was gone slightly above that .
In addition , the nail portion of my third finger had disappeared . ''
Carune had jerked his hand back instinctively , crying out .
He so much expected to see blood , he wrote later , that he actually hallucinated blood for a moment or two .
His elbow struck the ion gun and knocked it off the table .
He stood there with his fingers in his mouth , verifying that they were still there , and whole .
The thought that he had been working too hard crossed his mind .
And then the other thought crossed his mind : the thought that the last set of modifications might have ... might have done something .
He did not push his fingers back in ; in fact , Carune only Jaunted once more in his entire life .
At first , he did nothing .
He took a long , aimless walk around the barn , running his hands through his hair , wondering if he should call Carson in New Jersey or perhaps Buffington in Charlotte .
Carson would n't accept a collect phone call , the cheap ass-kissing bastard , but Buffington probably would .
Then an idea struck and he ran across to Portal Two , thinking that if his fingers had actually crossed the barn , there might be some sign of it .
There was not , of course .
Portal Two stood atop three stacked Pomona orange crates , looking like nothing so much as one of those toy guillotines missing the blade .
On one side of its stainless-steel frame was a plug-in jack , from which a cord ran back to the transmission terminal , which was little more than a particle transformer hooked into a computer feed-line .
Which reminded him - Carune glanced at his watch and saw it was quarter past eleven .
His deal with the government consisted of short money , plus computer time , which was infinitely valuable .
His computer tie-in lasted until three o'clock this afternoon , and then it was good-bye until Monday .
He had to get moving , had to do something - `` I glanced at the pile of crates again , '' Carune writes in his Popular Mechanics article , `` and then I looked at the pads of my fingers .
And sure enough , the proof was there .
It would not , I thought then convince anyone but myself ; but in the beginning , of course , it is only one 's self that one has to convince . ''
`` What was it , Dad ? ''
Ricky asked .
`` Yeah ! ''
Patty added .
`` What ? ''
Mark grinned a little .
They were all hooked now , even Marilys .
They had nearly forgotten where they were .
From the corner of his eye he could see the Jaunt attendants whisper-wheeling their cart slowly among the Jaunters , putting them to sleep .
It was never as rapid a process in the civilian sector as it was in the military , he had discovered ; civilians got nervous and wanted to talk it over .
The nozzle and the rubber mask were too reminiscent of hospital operating rooms , where the surgeon with his knives lurked somewhere behind the anaesthetist with her selection of gases in stainless-steel canisters .
Sometimes there was panic , hysteria ; and always there were a few who simply lost their nerve .
Mark had observed two of these as he spoke to the children : two men who had simply arisen from their couches , walked across to the entryway with no fanfare at all , unpinned the validation papers that had been affixed to their lapels , turned them in , and exited without looking back .
Jaunt attendants were under strict instructions not to argue with those who left ; there were always standbys , sometimes as many as forty or fifty of them , hoping against hope .
As those who simply could n't take it left , standbys were let in with their own validations pinned to their shirts .
`` Carune found two splinters in his index finger , '' he told the children .
`` He took them out and put them aside .
One was lost , but you can see the other one in the Smithsonian Annex in Washington .
It 's in a hermetically sealed glass case near the moon rocks the first space travellers brought back from the moon - `` `` Our moon , Dad , or one of Mars 's ? ''
Ricky asked .
`` Ours , '' Mark said , smiling a little .
`` Only one manned rocket flight has ever landed on Mars , Ricky , and that was a French expedition somewhere about 2030 .
Anyway , that 's why there happens to be a plain old splinter from an orange crate in the Smithsonian Institution .
Because it 's the first object that we have that was actually teleported - Jaunted - across space . ''
`` What happened then ? ''
Patty asked .
`` Well , according to the story , Carune ran ... '' Carune ran back to Portal One and stood there for a moment , heart thudding , out of breath .
Got to calm down , he told himself .
Got to think about this .
You ca n't maximize your time if you go off half-cocked .
Deliberately disregarding the forefront of his mind , which was screaming at him to hurry up and do something , he dug his nail-clippers out of his pocket and used the point of the file to dig the splinters out of his index finger .
He dropped them onto the white inner sleeve of a Hershey bar he had eaten while tinkering with the transformer and trying to widen its afferent capability ( he had apparently succeeded in that beyond his wildest dreams ) .
One rolled off the wrapper and was lost ; the other ended up in the Smithsonian Institution , locked in a glass case that was cordoned off with thick velvet ropes and watched vigilantly and eternally by a computer-monitored closed-circuit TV camera .
The splinter extraction finished , Carune felt a little calmer .
A pencil .
That was as good as anything .
He took one from beside the clipboard on the shelf above him and ran it gently into Portal One .
It disappeared smoothly , inch by inch , like something in an optical illusion or in a very good magician 's trick .
The pencil had said EBERHARD FABER NO .
2 on one of its sides , black letters stamped on yellow-painted wood .
When he had pushed the pencil in until all but EBERH had disappeared , Carune walked around to the other side of Portal One .
He looked in .
His subject would be divorce and the art of forgetfulness .
Shortly after the fourth anniversary is the optimum time for divorce , he would tell them .
Yes .
Down it had gone .
And for the last several months , he had n't really thought of Anne at all ... not even when the monthly alimony check was due .
It was a very reasonable , very civilized amount ; Anne had been making eighty thousand a year on her own before taxes .
His lawyer paid it , and it was just another item on the monthly statement Brian got , a little two thousand-dollar item tucked between the electricity bill and the mortgage payment on the condo .
He watched a gangly teenaged boy with a violin case under his arm and a yarmulke on his head walk down the aisle .
The boy looked both nervous and excited , his eyes full of the future .
Brian envied him .
There had been a lot of bitterness and anger between the two of them during the last year of the marriage , and finally , about four months before the end , it had happened : his hand had said go before his brain could say no .
He did n't like to remember that .
She 'd had too much to drink at a party , and she had really torn into him when they got home .
Leave me alone about it , Brian .
Just leave me alone .
No more talk about kids .
If you want a sperm-test , go to a doctor .
My job is advertising , not baby-making .
I 'm so tired of all your macho bullsh - That was when he had slapped her , hard , across the mouth .
The blow had clipped the last word off with brutal neatness .
They had stood looking at each other in the apartment where she would later die , both of them more shocked and frightened than they would ever admit ( except maybe now , sitting here in seat 5A and watching Flight 29 'S passengers come on board , he was admitting it , finally admitting it to himself ) .
She had touched her mouth , which had started to bleed .
She held out her fingers toward him .
You hit me , she said .
It was not anger in her voice but wonder .
He had an idea it might have been the first time anyone had ever laid an angry hand upon any part of Anne Quinlan Engle 's body .
Yes , he had said .
You bet .
And I 'll do it again if you do n't shut up .
You 're not going to whip me with that tongue of yours anymore , sweetheart .
You better put a padlock on it .
I 'm telling you for your own good .
Those days are over .
If you want something to kick around the house , buy a dog .
The marriage had crutched along for another few months , but it had really ended in that moment when Brian 's palm made brisk contact with the side of Anne 's mouth .
He had been provoked - God knew he had been provoked - but he still would have given a great deal to take that one wretched second back .
As the last passengers began to trickle on board , he found himself also thinking , almost obsessively , about Anne 's perfume .
He could recall its fragrance exactly , but not the name .
What had it been ?
Lissome ?
Lithsome ?
Lithium , for God 's sake ?
It danced just beyond his grasp .
It was maddening .
I miss her , he thought dully .
Now that she 's gone forever , I miss her .
Is n't that amazing ?
Lawnboy ?
Something stupid like that ?
Oh stop it , he told his weary mind .
Put a cork in it .
Okay , his mind agreed .
No problem ; I can quit .
I can quit anyttime I want .
Was it maybe Lifebuoy ?
No - that 's soap .
Sorry .
Lovebite ?
Lovelorn ?
Brian snapped his seatbelt shut , leaned back , closed his eyes , and smelled a perfume he could not quite name .
That was when the flight attendant spoke to him .
Of course : Brian Engle had a theory that they were taught - in a highly secret post-graduate course , perhaps called Teasing the Geese - to wait until the passenger closed his or her eyes before offering some not-quite-essential service .
And , of course , they were to wait until they were reasonably sure the passenger was asleep before waking them to ask if he would like a blanket or a pillow .
`` Pardon me ... '' she began , then stopped .
Brian saw her eyes go from the epaulets on the shoulders of his black jacket to the hat , with its meaningless squiggle of scrambled eggs , on the empty seat beside him .
She rethought herself and started again .
`` Pardon me , Captain , would you like coffee or orange juice ? ''
Brian was faintly amused to see he had flustered her a little .
She gestured toward the table at the front of the compartment , just below the small rectangular movie screen .
There were two ice-buckets on the table .
The slender green neck of a wine bottle poked out of each .
`` Of course , I also have champagne . ''
Engle considered ( Love Bo that 's not it close but no cigar ) the champagne , but only briefly .
`` Nothing , thanks , '' he said .
`` And no in-flight service .
I think I 'll sleep all the way to Boston .
How 's the weather look ? ''
`` Clouds at 20,000 feet from the Great Plains all the way to Boston , but no problem .
We 'll be at thirty-six .
Oh , and we 've had reports of the aurora borealis over the Mojave Desert .
You might want to stay awake for that . ''
Brian raised his eyebrows .
`` You 're kidding .
The aurora borealis over California ?
And at this time of year ? ''
`` That 's what we 've been told . ''
`` Somebody 's been taking too many cheap drugs , '' Brian said , and she laughed .
`` I think I 'll just snooze , thanks . ''
`` Very good , Captain . ''
She hesitated a moment longer .
`` You 're the captain who just lost his wife , are n't you ? ''
The headache pulsed and snarled , but he made himself smile .
This woman - who was really no more than a girl - meant no harm .
`` She was my ex-wife , but otherwise , yes .
I am . ''
`` I 'm awfully sorry for your loss . ''
`` Thank you . ''
`` Have I flown with you before , sir ? ''
His smile reappeared briefly .
The gunslinger gathered up the reins , slapped the dust off them against the faded no-colour of his jeans , and continued on up the street .
The wooden knocking sound grew steadily louder as he walked ( he had not holstered his gun when leaving LAW , nor cared to holster it now ) , and as he neared the town square , which must have housed the Eluria market in more normal times , Roland at last saw movement .
On the far side of the square was a long watering trough , made of iron-wood from the look ( what some called `` seequoiah '' out here ) , apparently fed in happier times from a rusty steel pipe which now jutted waterless above the trough 's south end .
Lolling over one side of this municipal oasis , about halfway down its length , was a leg clad in faded grey pants and terminating in a well-chewed cowboy boot .
The chewer was a large dog , perhaps two shades greyer than the corduroy pants .
Under other circumstances , Roland supposed the mutt would have had the boot off long since , but perhaps the foot and lower calf inside it had swelled .
In any case , the dog was well on its way to simply chewing the obstacle away .
It would seize the boot and shake it back and forth .
Every now and then the boot 's heel would collide with the wooden side of the trough , producing another hollow knock .
The gunslinger had n't been so wrong to think of coffin tops after all , it seemed .
Why does n't it just back off a few steps , jump into the trough , and have at him ?
Roland wondered .
No water coming out of the pipe , so it ca n't be afraid of drowning .
Topsy uttered another of his hollow , tired sneezes , and when the dog lurched around in response , Roland understood why it was doing things the hard way .
One of its front legs had been badly broken and crookedly mended .
Walking would be a chore for it , jumping out of the question .
On its chest was a patch of dirty white fur .
Growing out of this patch was black fur in a roughly cruciform shape .
A Jesus-dog , mayhap , hoping for a spot of afternoon communion .
There was nothing very religious about the snarl which began to wind out of its chest , however , or the roll of its rheumy eyes .
It lifted its upper lip in a trembling sneer , revealing a goodish set of teeth .
`` Light out , '' Roland said .
`` While you can . ''
The dog backed up until its hindquarters were pressed against the chewed boot .
It regarded the oncoming man fearfully , but clearly meant to stand its ground .
The revolver in Roland 's hand held no significance for it .
The gunslinger was n't surprised-he guessed the dog had never seen one , had no idea it was anything other than a club of some kind , which could only be thrown once .
`` Hie on with you , now , '' Roland said , but still the dog would n't move .
He should have shot it-it was no good to itself , and a dog that had acquired a taste for human flesh could be no good to anyone else-but he somehow did n't like to .
Killing the only thing still living in this town ( other than the singing bugs , that was ) seemed like an invitation to bad luck .
He fired into the dust near the dog 's good forepaw , the sound crashing into the hot day and temporarily silencing the insects .
The dog could run , it seemed , although at a lurching trot that hurt Roland 's eyes ... and his heart , a little , too .
It stopped at the far side of the square , by an overturned flatbed wagon ( there looked to be more dried blood splashed on the freighter 's side ) , and glanced back .
It uttered a forlorn howl that raised the hairs on the nape of Roland 's neck even further .
Then it turned , skirted the wrecked wagon , and limped down a lane which opened between two of the stalls .
This way towards Eluria 's back gate , Roland guessed .
Still leading his dying horse , the gunslinger crossed the square to the ironwood trough and looked in .
The owner of the chewed boot was n't a man but a boy who had just been beginning to get his man 's growth-and that would have been quite a large growth indeed , Roland judged , even setting aside the bloating effects which had resulted from being immersed for some unknown length of time in nine inches of water simmering under a summer sun .
The boy 's eyes , now just milky balls , stared blindly up at the gunslinger like the eyes of a statue .
His hair appeared to be the white of old age , although that was the effect of the water ; he had likely been a towhead .
His clothes were those of a cowboy , although he could n't have been much more than fourteen or sixteen .
Around his neck , gleaming blearily in water that was slowly turning into a skin stew under the summer sun , was a gold medallion .
Roland reached into the water , not liking to but feeling a certain obligation .
He wrapped his fingers around the medallion and pulled .
The chain parted , and he lifted the thing , dripping , into the air .
He rather expected a Jesus-man sigil-what was called the crucifix or the rood -but a small rectangle hung from the chain , instead .
The object looked like pure gold .
Engraved into it was this legend : James Loved of Family , Loved of GOD Roland , who had been almost too revolted to reach into the polluted water ( as a younger man , he could never have brought himself to that ) , was now glad he 'd done it .
He might never run into any of those who had loved this boy , but he knew enough of ka to think it might be so .
In any case , it was the right thing .
So was giving the kid a decent burial ... assuming , that was , he could get the body out of the trough without having it break apart inside the clothes .
Roland was considering this , trying to balance what might be his duty in this circumstance against his growing desire to get out of this town , when Topsy finally fell dead .
The roan went over with a creak of gear and a last whuffling groan as it hit the ground .
Roland turned and saw eight people in the street , walking towards him in a line , like beaters who hope to flush out birds or drive small game .
Their skin was waxy green .
Folk wearing such skin would likely glow in the dark like ghosts .
It was hard to tell their sex , and what could it matter-to them or anyone else ?
They were slow mutants , walking with the hunched deliberation of corpses reanimated by some arcane magic .
The dust had muffled their feet like carpet .
With the dog banished , they might well have gotten within attacking distance if Topsy had n't done Roland the favour of dying at such an opportune moment .
No guns that Roland could see ; they were armed with clubs .
These were chair-legs and table-legs , for the most part , but Roland saw one that looked made rather than seized-it had a bristle of rusty nails sticking out of it , and he suspected it had once-been the property of a saloon bouncer , possibly the one who kept school in The Bustling Pig .
Roland raised his pistol , aiming at the fellow in the centre of the line .
Now he could hear the shuffle of their feet , and the wet snuffle of their breathing .
As if they all had bad chest-colds .
Came out of the mines , most likely , Roland thought .
There are radium mines somewhere about .
That would account for the skin .
I wonder that the sun does n't kill them .
Then , as he watched , the one on the end-a creature with a face like melted candle-wax-did die ... or collapsed , at any rate .
He ( Roland was quite sure it was a male ) went to his knees with a low , gobbling cry , groping for the hand of the thing walking next to him-something with a lumpy bald head and red sores sizzling on its neck .
This creature took no notice of its fallen companion , but kept its dim eyes on Roland , lurching along in rough step with its remaining companions .
`` Stop where you are ! ''
Roland said .
`` Ware me , if you 'd live to see day 's end !
`` Ware me very well ! ''
He spoke mostly to the one in the centre , who wore ancient red suspenders over rags of shirt , and a filthy bowler hat .
This gent had only one good eye , and it peered at the gunslinger with a greed as horrible as it was unmistakable .
The one beside Bowler Hat ( Roland believed this one might be a woman , with the dangling vestiges of breasts beneath the vest it wore ) threw the chair-leg it held .
The arc was true , but the missile fell ten yards short .
Roland thumbed back the trigger of his revolver and fired again .
This time the dirt displaced by the slug kicked up on the tattered remains of Bowler Hat 's shoe instead of on a lame dog 's paw .
The green folk did n't run as the dog had , but they stopped , staring at him with their dull greed .
Had the missing folk of Eluria finished up in these creatures '' stomachs ?
Roland could n't believe it ... although he knew perfectly well that such as these held no scruple against cannibalism .
( And perhaps it was n't cannibalism , not really ; how could such things as these be considered human , whatever they might once have been ? )
They were too slow , too stupid .
If they had dared come back into town after the Sheriff had run them out , they would have been burned or stoned to death .
Without thinking about what he was doing , wanting only to free his other hand to draw his second gun if the apparitions did n't see reason , Roland stuffed the medallion which he had taken from the dead boy into the pocket of his jeans , pushing the broken fine-link chain in after .
They stood staring at him , their strangely twisted shadows drawn out behind them .
What next ?
Tell them to go back where they 'd come from ?
Roland did n't know if they 'd do it , and in any case had decided he liked them best where he could see them .
And at least there was no question now about staying to bury the boy named James ; that conundrum had been solved .
`` Stand steady , '' he said in the low speech , beginning to retreat .
`` First fellow that moves- '' Before he could finish , one of them-a thick-chested troll with a pouty toad 's mouth and what looked like gills on the sides of his wattled neck-lunged forward , gibbering in a high-pitched and peculiarly flabby voice .
It might have been a species of laughter .
He was waving what looked like a piano-leg .
Roland fired .
Mr Toad 's chest caved in like a bad piece of roofing .
`` I feel jumpy .
That 's the worst . ''
Garraty nodded .
The two of them walked toward the road and the stone marker .
Behind them , other cars were pulling out .
A woman began screaming abruptly .
Unconsciously , Garraty and McVries drew closer together .
Neither of them looked back .
Ahead of them was the road , wide and black .
`` That composition surface will be hot by noon , '' McVries said abruptly .
`` I 'm going to stick to the shoulder . ''
Garraty nodded .
McVries looked at him thoughtfully .
`` What do you weigh ? ''
`` Hundred and sixty . ''
`` I 'm one-sixty-seven .
They say the heavier guys get tired quicker , but I think I 'm in pretty good shape . ''
To Garraty , Peter McVries looked rather more than that-he looked awesomely fit .
He wondered who they were that said the heavier guys got tired quicker , almost asked , and decided not to .
The Walk was one of those things that existed on apocrypha , talismans , legend .
McVries sat down in the shade near a couple of other boys , and after a moment , Garraty sat beside him .
McVries seemed to have dismissed him entirely .
Garraty looked at his watch .
It was five after eight .
Fifty-five minutes to go .
Impatience and anticipation came back , and he did his best to squash them , telling himself to enjoy sitting while he could .
All of the boys were sitting .
Sitting in groups and sitting alone ; one boy had climbed onto the lowest branch of a pine overlooking the road and was eating what looked like a jelly sandwich .
He was skinny and blond , wearing purple pants and a blue chambray shirt under an old green zip sweater with holes in the elbows .
Garraty wondered if the skinny ones would last or burn out quickly .
The boys he and McVries had sat down next to were talking .
`` I 'm not hurrying , '' one of them said .
`` Why should I ?
If I get warned , so what ?
You just adjust , that 's all .
Adjustment is the key word here .
Remember where you heard that first . ''
He looked around and discovered Garraty and McVries .
`` More lambs to the slaughter .
Hank Olson 's the name .
Walking is my game . ''
He said this with no trace of a smile at all .
Garraty offered his own name .
McVries spoke his own absently , still looking off toward the road .
`` I 'm Art Baker , '' the other said quietly .
He spoke with a very slight Southern accent .
The four of them shook hands all around .
There was a moment 's silence , and McVries said , `` Kind of scary , is n't it ? ''
They all nodded except Hank Olson , who shrugged and grinned .
Garraty watched the boy in the pine tree finish his sandwich , ball up the waxed paper it had been in , and toss it onto the soft shoulder .
He 'll burn out early , he decided .
That made him feel a little better .
`` You see that spot right by the marker post ? ''
Olson said suddenly .
They all looked .
The breeze made moving shadow-patterns across the road .
Garraty did n't know if he saw anything or not .
`` That 's from the Long Walk the year before last , '' Olson said with grim satisfaction .
`` Kid was so scared he just froze up at nine o'clock . ''
They considered the horror of it silently .
`` Just could n't move .
He took his three warnings and then at 9:02 AM they gave him his ticket .
Right there by the starting post . ''
Garraty wondered if his own legs would freeze .
He did n't think so , but it was a thing you would n't know for sure until the time came , and it was a terrible thought .
He wondered why Hank Olson wanted to bring up such a terrible thing .
Suddenly Art Baker sat up straight .
`` Here he comes . ''
A dun-colored jeep drove up to the stone marker and stopped .
It was followed by a strange , tread-equipped vehicle that moved much more slowly .
There were toy-sized radar dishes mounted on the front and back of this halftrack .
Two soldiers lounged on its upper deck , and Garraty felt a chill in his belly when he looked at them .
They were carrying army-type heavy-caliber carbine rifles .
Some of the boys got up , but Garraty did not .
Neither did Olson or Baker , and after his initial look , McVries seemed to have fallen back into his own thoughts .
The skinny kid in the pine tree was swinging his feet idly .
The Major got out of the jeep .
He was a tall , straight man with a deep desert tan that went well with his simple khakis .
A pistol was strapped to his Sam Browne belt , and he was wearing reflector sunglasses .
It was rumored that the Major 's eyes were extremely light-sensitive , and he was never seen in public without his sunglasses .
`` Sit down , boys , '' he said .
`` Keep Hint Thirteen in mind . ''
Hint Thirteen was `` Conserve energy whenever possible . ''
Those who had stood sat down .
Garraty looked at his watch again .
It said 8:16 , and he decided it was a minute fast .
The Major always showed up on time .
He thought momentarily of setting it back a minute and then forgot it .
`` I 'm not going to make a speech , '' the Major said , sweeping them with the blank lenses that covered his eyes .
`` I give my congratulations to the winner among your number , and my acknowledgments of valor to the losers . ''
He turned to the back of the jeep .
There was a living silence .
Garraty breathed deep of the spring air .
It would be warm .
A good day to walk .
The Major turned back to them .
He was holding a clipboard .
`` When I call your name , please step forward and take your number .
Then go back to your place until it is time to begin .
Do this smartly , please . ''
When I got to the edge of the water I only stood there for a little while , breathing deep of that mossy smell and watching the dragonflies circle and the skitterbugs skate .
Then , further down , I saw a trout leap at a butterfly -- a good big brookie , maybe fourteen inches long -- and remembered I had n't come here just to sightsee .
I walked along the bank , following the current , and wet my line for the first time , with the bridge still in sight upstream .
Something jerked the tip of my pole down once or twice and ate half my worm , but whatever it was was too sly for my nine-year old hands-or maybe just not hungry enough to be careless -- so I quit that place .
I stopped at two or three other places before I got to the place where Castle Stream forks , going southwest into Castle Rock and southeast into Kashwakamak Township , and at one of them I caught the biggest trout I have ever caught in my life , a beauty that measured nineteen inches from tip to tail on the little ruler I kept in my creel .
That was a monster of a brook , even for those days .
If I had accepted this as gift enough for one day and gone back , I would not be writing now ( and this is going to turn out longer that I thought it would , I see that already ) , but I did n't .
Instead I saw to my catch right then and there as my father had shown me -- cleaning it , placing it on dry grass at the bottom of the creel , then laying damp grass on top of it -- and went on .
I did not , at age nine , think that catching a nineteen-inch brook trout was particularly remarkable , although I do remember being amazed that my line had not broken when I , netless as well as artless , had hauled it out and swung it toward me in a clumsy tail-flapping arc .
There was a pleasant flat space here , grassy and soft , overlooking what my dad and I called South Branch .
I squatted on my heels , dropped my line into the water , and almost immediately snagged a fine rainbow trout .
He was n't the size of my brookie-only a foot or so -- but a good fish , just the same .
I had it cleaned out before the gills had stopped flexing , stored it in my creel , and dropped my line back into the water .
This time there was no immediate bite , so I leaned back , looking up at the blue stripe of sky I could see along the stream 's course .
Clouds floated by , west to east , and I tried to think what they looked like .
I saw a unicorn , then a rooster , then a dog that looked like Candy Bill .
I was looking for the next one when I drowsed off .
Or maybe slept .
I do n't know for sure .
All I know is that a tug on my line so strong it almost pulled the bamboo pole out of my hand was what brought my back into the afternoon .
I sat up , clutched the pole , and suddenly became aware that something was sitting on the tip of my nose .
I crossed my eyes and saw a bee .
My heart seemed to fall dead in my chest , and for a sure horrible second I was sure I was going to wet my pants .
The tug on my line came again , stronger this time , but although I maintained my grip on the end of the pole so it would n't be pulled into the stream and perhaps carried away ( I think I even had the presence of mind to snub the line with my forefinger ) , I made no effort to pull in my catch .
All my horrified attention was fixed on the fat black-and-yellow thing that was using my nose as a rest stop .
I slowly poked out my lower lip and blew upward .
The bee ruffled a little but kept its place .
I blew again and it ruffled again -- but this time it also seemed to shift impatiently , and I did n't dare blow anymore , for fear it would lose its temper completely and give me a shot .
It was too close for me to focus on what it was doing , but it was easy to imagine it ramming its stinger into one of my nostrils and shooting its poison up toward my eyes .
And my brain .
A terrible idea came to me : that this was the very bee that had killed my brother .
I knew it was n't true , and not only because honeybees probably did n't live longer than a single year ( except maybe for the queens ; about them I was not so sure ) .
It could n't be true , because honeybees died when they stung , and even at nine I knew it .
Their stingers were barbed , and when they tried to fly away after doing the deed , they tore themselves apart .
Still , the idea stayed .
This was a special bee , a devil-bee , and it had come back to finish the other of Albion and Loretta 's two boys .
And here is something else : I had been stung my bees before , and although the stings had swelled more than is perhaps usual ( I ca n't really say for sure ) , I had never died of them .
That was only for my brother , a terrible trap that had been laid for him in his very making -- a trap that I had somehow escaped .
But as I crossed my eyes until it hurt , in an effort to focus on the bee , logic did not exist .
It was the bee that existed , only that -- the bee that had killed my brother , killed him so cruelly that my father had slipped down the straps of his over-engorged face .
Even in the depths of his grief he had done that , because he did n't want his wife to see what had become of her firstborn .
Now the bee had returned , and now it would kill me .
I would die in convulsion on the bank , flopping just as a brookie flops after you take the hook out of its mouth .
As I sat there trembling on the edge of panic -- ready to bolt to my feet and then bolt anywhere -- there came a report from behind me .
It was as sharp and peremptory as a pistol shot , but I knew it was n't a pistol shot ; it was someone clapping his hands .
One single clap .
At that moment , the bee tumbled off my nose and fell into my lap .
It lay there on my pants with its legs sticking up and its stinger a threatless black thread against the old scuffed brown of the corduroy .
It was dead as a doornail , I saw that at once .
At the same moment , the pole gave another tug -- the hardest yet -- and I almost lost it again .
I grabbed it with both hands and gave it a big stupid yank that would have made my father clutch his head with both hands , if he had been there to see .
A rainbow trout , a good bit larger than either of the ones I had already caught , rose out of the water in a wet flash , spraying fine drops of water from its tail -- it looked like one of those fishing pictures they used to put on the covers of men 's magazines like True and Man 's Adventure back in the forties and fifties .
At that moment hauling in a big one was about the last thing on my mind , however , and when the line snapped and the fish fell back into the stream , I barely noticed .
I looked over my shoulder to see who had clapped .
A man was standing above me , at the edge of the trees .
His face was very long and pale .
His black hair was combed tight against his skull and parted with rigorous care on the left side of his narrow head .
He was very tall .
He was wearing a black three-piece suit , and I knew right away that he was not a human being , because his eyes were the orangey red of flames in a woodstove .
I do n't mean just the irises , because he had no irises , and no pupils , and certainly no whites .
His eyes were completely orange -- an orange that shifted and flickered .
And it 's really too late not to say exactly what I mean , is n't it ?
He was on fire inside , and his eyes were like the little isinglass portholes you sometimes see in stove doors .
My bladder let go , and the scuffed brown the dead bee was lying on went a darker brown .
I was hardly aware of what had happened , and I could n't take my eyes off the man standing on top of the bank and looking down at me -- the man who had apparently walked out of thirty miles of trackless western Maine woods in fine black suit and narrow shoes of gleaming leather .
I could see the watch chain looped across his vest glittering in the summer sunshine .
`` Why , it 's a fisherboy ! ''
he cried in a mellow , pleasing voice .
`` Imagine that !
Are we well met , fisherboy ? ''
`` Hello , sir , '' I said .
The voice that came out of me did not tremble , but it did n't sound like my voice , either .
It sounded older .
Like Dan 's voice , maybe .
Or my father 's , even .
And all I could think was that maybe he would let me go if I pretended not to see what he was .
If I pretended I did n't see there were flames glowing and dancing where his eyes should have been .
`` I 've saved you a nasty sting , perhaps , '' he said , and then to my horror , he came down to the bank to where I sat with a dead bee in my wet lap and a bamboo fishing pole in my nerveless hands .
His slick-soled city shoes should have slipped on the low , grassy weeds dressing the steep bank , but they did n't nor did they leave tracks , I saw .
Where his feet had touched -- or seemed to touch-there was not a single broken twig , crushed leaf , or trampled shoeshape .
Even before he reached me , I recognized the aroma baking up from the skin under the suit -- the smell of burned matches .
The smell of sulfur .
The man in the black suit was the Devil .
He had walked out of the deep woods between Motton and Kashwakamak , and now he was standing here beside me .
From the corner of one eye I could see a hand as pale as the hand of a store-window dummy .
The fingers were hideously long .
He hunkered beside me on his hams , his knees popping just as the knees of any normal man might , but when he moved his hands so they dangled between his knees , I saw that each of those long fingers ended in not a fingernail but a long yellow claw .
`` You did n't answer my question , fisherboy , '' he said in his mellow voice .
It was , now that I think of it , like the voice of those radio announcers on the big-band shows years later , the ones that would sell Geritol and Serutan and Ovaltine and Dr. Granbow pipes .
`` Are we well met ? ''
`` Please do n't hurt me , '' I whispered , in a voice so low I could barely hear it .
I was more afraid than I could ever write down , more afraid than I want to remember .
But I do .
I do .
it never crossed my mind to hope I was having a dream , although it might have , I suppose , if I had been older .
But I was nine , and I knew the truth when it squatted down beside me .
I knew a hawk from a handsaw , as my father would have said .
The man who had come out of the woods on that Saturday afternoon in midsummer was the Devil , and inside the empty holes of his eyes his brains were burning .
`` Oh , do I smell something ? ''
There are things over there , which are undreamed of in our philosophy .
Their reaction to motorcars is amusing : the children shrink from them as they go by and then follow them for blocks .
They find the airplane terrifying and incomprehensible .
Of course , we Americans view these contraptions with complete equanimity -- even complacency !
-- but I assure you that my reaction was exactly the same as theirs when I first observed a street-corner beggar swallow an entire packet of steel needles and then pull them , one by one , from the open sores at the end of his fingers .
Yet here is something that natives of that part of the world take utterly for granted .
'Perhaps , ' he added somberly , 'the two cultures were never intended to mix , but to keep their separate wonders to themselves .
For an American such as you or I to swallow a packet of needles would result in a slow , horrible death .
And as for the motorcar ... ' He trailed off , and a bleak , shadowed expression came to his face .
`` I was about to speak when Stevens the Elder appeared with Brower 's bottle of Scotch , and directly following him , Davidson and the others .
`` Davidson prefaced the introductions by saying , 'I 've told them all of your little fetish , Henry , so you need n't fear for a thing .
This is Darrel Baker , the fearsome-looking fellow with the beard is Andrew French , and last but not least , Jack Wilden .
George Gregson you already know . '
`` Brower smiled and nodded at all of them in lieu of shaking hands .
Poker chips and three fresh decks of cards were produced , money was changed for markers , and the game began .
`` We played for better than six hours , and I won perhaps two hundred dollars .
Darrel Baker , who was not a particularly good player , lost about eight hundred ( not that he would ever feel the pinch ; his father owned three of the largest shoe factories in New England ) , and the rest had split Baker 's losses with me about evenly .
Davidson was a few dollars up and Brower a few down ; yet for Brower to be near even was no mean feat , for he had had astoundingly bad cards for most of the evening .
He was adroit at both the traditional five-card draw and the newer seven-card-stud variety of the game , and I thought that several times he had won money on cool bluffs that I myself would have hesitated to try .
`` I did notice one thing : although he drank quite heavily -- by the time French prepared to deal the last hand , he had polished off almost an entire bottle of Scotch -- his speech did not slur at all , his card-playing skill never faltered , and his odd fixation about the touching of hands never flagged .
When he won a pot , he never touched it if someone had markers or change or if someone had 'gone light ' and still had chips to contribute .
Once , when Davidson placed his glass rather close to his elbow , Brower flinched back abruptly , almost spilling his own drink .
Baker looked surprised , but Davidson passed it off with a remark .
`` Jack Wilden had commented a few moments earlier that he had a drive to Albany staring him in the face later that morning , and once more around the table would do for him .
So the deal came to French , and he called seven-card stud .
`` I can remember that final hand as clearly as my own name , although I should be pressed to describe what I had for lunch yesterday or whom I ate it with .
The mysteries of age , I suppose , and yet I think that if any of you other fellows had been there you might remember it as well .
`` I was dealt two hearts down and one up .
I ca n't speak for Wilden or French , but young Davidson had the ace of hearts and Brower the ten of spades .
Davidson bet two dollars -- five was our limit -- and the cards went round again .
I drew a heart to make four , Brower drew a jack of spades to go with his ten .
Davidson had caught a trey which did not seem to improve his hand , yet he threw three dollars into the pot .
'Last hand , ' he said merrily .
'Drop it in , boys !
There 's a lady who would like to go out on the town with me tomorrow night ! '
`` I do n't suppose I would have believed a fortune-teller if he had told me how often that remark would come back to haunt me at odd moments , right down to this day .
`` French dealt our third round of up cards .
I got no help with my flush , but Baker , who was the big loser , paired up something -- kings , I think .
Brower had gotten a deuce of diamonds that did not seem to help anything .
Baker bet the limit on his pair , and Davidson promptly raised him five .
Everyone stayed in the game , and our last up card came around the table .
I drew the king of hearts to fill up my flush , Baker drew a third to his pair , and Davidson got a second ace that fairly made his eyes sparkle .
Brower got a queen of clubs , and for the life of me I could n't see why he remained in .
His cards looked as bad as any he had folded that night .
`` The bettings began to get a little steep .
Baker bet five , Davidson raised five , Brower called .
Jack Wilden said , 'Somehow I do n't think my pair is quite good enough , ' and threw in his hand .
I called the ten and raised another five .
Baker called and raised again .
`` Well , I need n't bore you with a raise-by-raise description .
I 'll only say that there was a three-raise limit per man , and Baker , Davidson , and I each took three raises of five dollars .
Brower merely called each bet and raise , being careful to wait until all hands were clear of the pot before throwing his money in .
And there was a lot of money in there -- slightly better than two hundred dollars -- as French dealt us our last card facedown .
`` There was a pause as we all looked , although it meant nothing to me ; I had my hand , and from what 1 could see on the table it was good .
Baker threw in five , Davidson raised , and we waited to see what Brower would do .
His face was slightly flushed with alcohol , he had removed his tie and unbuttoned a second shirt button , but he seemed quite calm .
'I call ... and raise five , ' he said .
`` I blinked a little , for I had fully expected him to fold .
Still , the cards I held told me I must play to win , and so I raised five .
We played with no limit to the number of raises a player could make on the last card , and so the pot grew marvelously .
I stopped first , being content simply to call in view of the full house I had become more and more sure someone must be holding .
Baker stopped next , blinking warily from Davidson 's pair of aces to Brewer 's mystifying junk hand .
Baker was not the best of card players , but he was good enough to sense something in the wind .
`` Between them , Davidson and Brower raised at least ten more times , perhaps more .
Baker and I were carried along , unwilling to cast away our large investments^ The four of us had run out of chips , and greenbacks now lay in a drift over the huge sprawl of markers .
`` Well , '' Davidson said , following Brewer 's latest raise , 'I believe I 'll simply call .
If you 've been running a bluff , Henry , it 's been a fine one .
But I have you beaten and Jack 's got a long trip ahead of him tomorrow . '
And with that he put a five-dollar bill on top of the pile and said , 'I call . '
George paused here .
His pipe had gone out .
`` Well , what happened ?
`` Adley leaned forward .
`` Do n't tease us , George .
You 've got us all on the edge of our chairs .
Push us off or settle us back in . ''
`` Be patient , '' George said , unperturbed .
He produced another match , scratched it on the sole of his shoe , and puffed at his pipe .
We waited intently , without speaking .
Outside , the wind screeched and hooted around the eaves .
When the pipe was aglow and things seemed set to rights , George continued : '' As you know , the rules of poker state that the man who has been called should show first .
But Baker was too anxious to end the tension ; he pulled out one of his three down cards and turned it over to show four kings .
`` That does me , '' I said .
`` A flush . ''
`` I have you , '' Davidson said to Baker , and showed two of his down cards .
Two aces , to make four .
'Damn well played . '
And he began to pull in the huge pot .
`` Wait ! '
Brower said .
He did not reach out and touch Davidson 's hand as most would have done , but his voice was enough .
Davidson paused to look and his mouth fell-actually fell open as if all the muscles there had turned to water .
Brower had turned over all three of his down cards , to reveal a straight flush , from the eight to the queen .
'I believe this beats your aces ? '
Brower said politely .
`` Davidson went red , then white .
'Yes , ' he said slowly , as if discovering the fact for the first time .
'Yes , it does . '
`` I would give a great deal to know Davidson 's motivation for what came next .
He knew of Brewer 's extreme aversion to being touched ; the man had showed it in a hundred different ways that night .
`` Go with your mother .
I want to get some candles in case the lights go off . ''
He went with her , and I started opening cabinets .
Candles are funny things , you know .
You lay them by every spring , knowing that a summer storm may knock out the power .
And when the time tomes , they hide .
I was pawing through the fourth cabinet , past the half-ounce of grass that Steff and I bought four years ago and had still not smoked much of , past Billy 's wind-up set of chattering teeth from the Auburn Novelty Shop , past the drifts of photos Steffy kept forgetting to glue in our album .
I looked under a Sears catalogue and behind a Kewpie doll from Taiwan that I had won at the Fryeburg Fair knocking over wooden milk bottles with tennis balls .
I found the candles behind the Kewpie doll with its glazed dead man 's eyes .
They were still wrapped in their cellophane .
As my hand closed around them the lights went out and the only electricity was the stuff in the sky .
The dining room was lit in a series of shutter-flashes that were white and purple .
Downstairs I heard Billy start to cry and the low murmur of Steff soothing him .
I had to have one more look at the storm .
The water-cyclone had either passed us or broken up when it reached the shoreline , but I still could n't see twenty yards out onto the lake .
The water was in complete turmoil .
I saw someone 's dock-the Jassers ' , maybe-hurry by with its main supports alternately turned up to the sky and buried in the churning water .
I went downstairs .
Billy ran to me and clung to my legs .
I lifted him up and gave him a hug .
Then I lit the candies .
We sat in the guest room down the hall from my little studio and looked at each other 's faces in the flickering yellow glow and listened to the storm roar and bash at our house .
About twenty minutes later we heard a ripping , rending crash as one of the big pines went down nearby .
Then there was a lull .
`` Is it over ? ''
Steff asked .
`` Maybe , '' I said .
`` Maybe only for a while .
We went upstairs , each of us carrying a candle , like monks going to vespers .
Billy carried his proudly and carefully .
Carrying a candle , carrying the fire , was a very big deal for him .
It helped him forget about being afraid .
It was too dark to see what damage had been done around the house .
It was past Billy 's bedtime , but neither of us suggested putting him in .
We sat in the living room , listened to the wind , and looked at the lightning .
About an hour later it began to crank up again .
For three weeks the temperature had been over ninety , and on six of those twenty-one days the National Weather Service station at the Portland Jetport had reported temperatures of over one hundred degrees .
Queer weather .
Coupled with the grueling winter we had come through and the late spring , some people had dragged out that old chestnut about the long-range results of the fifties A-bomb tests again .
That , and of course , the end of the world .
The oldest chestnut of them all .
The second squall was n't so hard , but we heard the crash of several trees weakened by the first onslaught .
As the wind began to die down again , one thudded heavily on the roof , like a fist dropped on a coffin lid .
Billy jumped and looked apprehensively upward .
`` It 'll hold , champ , '' I said .
Billy smiled nervously .
Around ten o'clock the last squall came .
It was bad .
The wind howled almost as loudly as it had the first time , and lightning seemed to be flashing all around us .
More trees fell , and there was a splintering crash down by the water that made Steff utter a low cry .
Billy had gone to sleep on her lap .
`` David , what was that ? ''
`` I think it was the boathouse . ''
`` Oh .
Oh , Jesus . ''
`` Steffy , I want us to go downstairs again . ''
I took Billy in my arms and stood up with him .
Steffs eyes were big and frightened .
`` David , are we going to be all right . ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Really ? ''
`` Yes . ''
We went downstairs .
Ten minutes later , as the final squall peaked , there was a splintering crash from upstairs-the picture window .
So maybe my vision earlier had n't been so crazy after all .
Steff , who had been dozing , woke up with a little shriek , and Billy stirred uneasily in the guest bed .
`` The rain will come in , '' she said .
`` It 'll ruin the furniture . ''
`` If it does , it does .
It 's insured . ''
`` That does n't make it any better , '' she said in an upset , scolding voice .
`` Your mother 's dresser ... our new sofa ... the colour TV ... '' '' Shhh , '' I said .
`` Go to sleep . ''
`` I ca n't , '' she said , and five minutes later she had .
I stayed awake for another half hour with one lit candle for company , listening to the thunder walk and talk outside .
I had a feeling that there were going to be a lot of people from the lakefront communities calling their insurance agents in the morning , a lot of chainsaws burring as cottage owners cut up the trees that had fallen on their roofs and battered through their windows , and a lot of orange CMP trucks on the road .
The storm was fading now , with no sign of a new squall coming in .
I went back upstairs , leaving Steff and Billy on the bed , and looked into the living room .
The sliding glass door had held .
But where the picture window had been there was now a jagged hole stuffed with birch leaves .
It was the top of the old tree that had stood by our outside basement access for as long as I could remember .
Looking at its top , now visiting in our living room , I could understand what Steff had meant by saying insurance did n't make it any better .
I had loved that tree .
It had been a hard campaigner of many winters , the one tree on the lakeside of the house that was exempt from my own chainsaw .
Big chunks of glass on the rug reflected my candle-flame over and over .
I reminded myself to warn Steff and Billy .
They would want to wear their slippers in here .
Both of them liked to slop around barefoot in the morning .
`` Jeee-pers , '' Billy said .
He was standing by the fence that separates our property from Norton 's and looking down our driveway .
The driveway runs a quarter of a mile to a camp road which , in its turn , runs about three-quarters of mile to a stretch of two-lane blacktop , called Kansas Road .
From Kansas Road you can go anywhere you want , as long as it 's Bridgton .
I saw what Billy was looking at and my heart went cold .
`` Do n't go any closer , champ .
Right there is close enough . ''
Billy did n't argue .
The morning was bright and as clear as a bell .
The sky , which had been a mushy , hazy color during the heat wave , had regained a deep , crisp blue that was nearly autumnal .
There was a light breeze , making cheerful sun-dapples move back and forth in the driveway .
Not far from where Billy was standing there was a steady hissing noise , and in the grass there was what you might at first have taken for a writhing bundle of snakes .
the lips would move .
the teeth would seem to get bigger , to become vampire teeth , the lips would writhe and the cymbals would bang , stupid monkey , stupid clockwork monkey , stupid , stupid He dropped it .
His hands were shaking and he dropped it .
The key clicked on the bathroom tile as it struck the floor .
The sound seemed very loud in the stillness .
It grinned at him with its murky amber eyes , doll 's eyes , filled with idiot glee , its brass cymbals poised as if to strike up a march for some band from hell .
On the bottom the words MADE IN HONG KONG were stamped .
`` You ca n't be here , '' he whispered .
`` I threw you down the well when I was nine . ''
The monkey grinned up at him .
Outside in the night , a black capful of wind shook the motel .
Hal 's brother Bill and Bill 's wife Collette met them at Uncle Will 's and Aunt Ida 's the next day .
`` Did it ever cross your mind that a death in the family is a really lousy way to renew the family connection ' ? ''
Bill asked him with a bit of a grin .
He had been named for Uncle Will .
Will and Bill , champions of the rodayo , Uncle Will used to say , and ruffle Bill 's hair .
It was one of his sayings ... like the wind can whistle but it ca n't carry a tune .
Uncle Will had died six years before , and Aunt Ida had lived on here alone , until a stroke had taken her just the previous week .
Very sudden , Bill had said when he called long distance to give Hal the news .
As if he could know ; as if anyone could know .
She had died alone .
`` Yeah , '' Hal said .
`` The thought crossed my mind . ''
They looked at the place together , the home place where they had finished growing up .
Their father , a merchant mariner , had simply disappeared as if from the very , face of the earth when they were young ; Bill claimed to remember him vaguely , but Hal had no memories of him at all .
Their mother had died when Bill was ten and Hal eight .
Aunt Ida had brought them here on a Greyhound bus which left from Hartford , and they had been raised here , and gone to college from here .
This had been the place they were homesick for .
Bill had stayed in Maine and now had a healthy law practice in Portland .
Hal saw that Petey had wandered off toward the blackberry tangles that lay on the eastern side of the house in a mad jumble .
`` Stay away from there , Petey , '' he called .
Petey looked back , questioning .
Hal felt simple love for the boy rush him ... and he suddenly thought of the monkey again .
`` Why , Dad ? ''
`` The old well 's back there someplace , '' Bill said .
`` But I 'll be damned if I remember just where .
Your dad 's right , Petey -- it 's a good place to stay away from .
Thorns 'll do a job on you .
Right , Hal ? ''
`` Right , '' Hat said automatically .
Petey moved away , not looking back , and then started down the embankment toward the small shingle of beach where Dennis was skipping stones over the water .
Hal felt something in his chest loosen a little .
From the bottom of that wet , rock-lined throat a drowning face stared up at him , wide eyes .
grimacing mouth .
A moan escaped him .
It was not loud , except in his heart .
There it had been very loud .
It was his own face in the dark water .
Not the monkey 's .
For a moment he had thought it was the monkey 's .
He was shaking .
Shaking all over .
I threw it down the well .
I threw it down the well , please God do n't let me be crazy , I threw it down the well .
The well had gone dry the summer Johnny McCabe died , the year after Bill and Hal came to stay with Uncle Will and Aunt Ida .
Uncle Wilt had borrowed money from the bank to have an artesian well sunk , and the blackberry tangles had grown up around the old dug well .
The dry well .
Except the water had come back .
Like the monkey .
This time the memory would not be denied .
Hal sat there helplessly , letting it come , trying to go with it , to ride it like a suffer riding a monster wave that will crush him if he falls off his board , just trying to get through it so it would be gone again .
He had crept out here with the monkey late that summer , and the blackberries had been out , the smell of them thick and cloying .
No one came in here to pick , although Aunt Ida would sometimes stand at the edge of the tangles and pick a cupful of berries into her apron .
In here the blackberries had gone past ripe to overripe , some of them were rotting , sweating a thick white fluid like pus , and the crickets sang maddeningly in the high grass underfoot , their endless cry : Reeeeee -- The thorns tore at him , brought dots of blood onto his cheeks and bare arms .
He made no effort to avoid their sting .
He had been blind with terror so blind that he had come within inches of stumbling onto the rotten boards that covered the well , perhaps within inches of crashing thirty feet to the well 's muddy bottom .
He had pinwheeled his arms for balance , and more thorns had branded his forearms .
It was that memory that had caused him to call Petey back sharply .
That was the day Johnny McCabe died -- his best friend .
Johnny had been climbing the rungs up to his treehouse in his backyard .
The two of them had spent many hours up there that summer , playing pirate , seeing make-believe galleons out on the lake , unlimbering the cannons , reefing the stuns'l ( whatever that was ) , preparing to board .
Johnny had been climbing up to the treehouse as he had done a thousand times before , and the rung just below the trapdoor in the bottom of the treehouse had snapped off in his hands and Johnny had fallen thirty feet to the ground and had broken his neck and it was the monkey 's fault , the monkey , the goddam hateful monkey .
When the phone rang , when Aunt Ida 's mouth dropped open and then formed an O of horror as her friend Milly from down the road told her the news , when Aunt Ida said , `` Come out on the porch , Hal , I have to tell you some bad news -- '' he had thought with sick horror , The monkey !
What 's the monkey done now ?
There had been no reflection of his face trapped at the bottom of the well the day he threw the monkey down , only stone cobbles and the stink of wet mud .
He had looked at the monkey lying there on the wiry grass that grew between the blackberry tangles , its cymbals poised , its grinning teeth huge between its splayed lips , its fur rubbed away in balding , mangy patches here and there , its glazed eyes .
`` I hate you , '' he hissed at it .
He wrapped his hand around its loathsome body , feeling the nappy fur crinkle .
It grinned at him as he held it up in front of his face .
`` Go on ! ''
he dared it , beginning to cry for the first time that day .
He shook it .
The poised cymbals trembled minutely .
The monkey spoiled everything good .
Everything .
`` Go on , clap them !
Clap them ! ''
The monkey only grinned .
`` Go on and clap them ! ''
His voice rose hysterically .
`` Fraidycat , fraidycat , go on and clap them/ I dare you !
DOUBLE DARE YOU/ '' Its brownish-yellow eyes .
Its huge gleeful teeth .
He threw it down the well then , mad with grief and terror .
He saw it turn over once on its way down , a simian acrobat doing a trick , and the sun glinted one last time on those cymbals .
It struck the bottom with a thud , and that must have jogged its clockwork , for suddenly the cymbals did begin to beat .
Jang-jang-jang-jang , who 's dead ?
Jang-jang-jang-jang , is it Johnny McCabe .
falling with his eves wide .
`` The Reach froze in '38 , but there was snow that year .
Do you remember Bull Symes , Hattie ? ''
Hattie laughed .
`` I think I still have the black-and-blue he gave me on my sit-upon at the New Year 's party in '53 .
He pinched me that hard .
What about him ? ''
`` Bull and my own man walked across to the mainland that year , '' Stella said .
`` That February of 1938 .
Strapped on snowshoes , walked across to Dorrit 's Tavern on the Head , had them each a shot of whiskey , and walked back .
They asked me to come along .
They were like two little boys off to the sliding with a toboggan between them . ''
They were looking at her , touched by the wonder of it .
Even Vera was looking at her wide-eyed , and Vera had surely heard the tale before .
fr you believed the stories , Bull and Vera had once played some house together , although it was hard , looking at Vera now , to believe she had ever been so young .
`` And you did n't go ? ''
Suddenly she wished she had brought her own knitting .
`` I did n't go with them . ''
`` Why not ? ''
Hattie asked , almost indignantly .
`` It was washday , '' Stella almost snapped , and then Missy Bowie , Russell 's widow , broke into loud , braying sobs .
Stella looked over and there sat Bill Flanders in his red-and-black-checked jacket , hat cocked to one side , smoking a Herbert Tareyton with another tucked behind his ear for later .
She felt her heart leap into her chest and choke between beats .
She made a noise , but just then a knot popped like a rifle shot in the stove , and neither of the other ladies heard .
`` Poor thing , '' Sarah nearly cooed .
`` Well shut of that good-for-nothing , '' Hattie grunted .
She searched for the grim depth of the truth concerning the departed Russell Bowie and found it : `` Little more than a tramp for pay , that man .
She 's well out of that two-hoss trace . ''
Stella barely heard these things .
There sat Bill , close enough to the Reverend McCracken to have tweaked his nose if he so had a mind ; he looked no more than forty , his eyes barely marked by the crow's-feet that had later sunk so deep , wearing his flannel pants and his gum-rubber boots with the gray wool socks folded neatly down over the tops .
`` We 're waitin on you , Stel , '' he said .
`` You come on across and see the mainland .
You wo n't need no snowshoes this year . ''
There he sat in the town-hall basement , big as Billy-be-damned , and then another knot exploded in the stove and he was gone .
And the Reverend McCracken went on comforting Missy Bowie as if nothing had happened .
That night Vera called up Annie Phillips on the phone , and in the course of the conversation mentioned to Annie that Stella Flanders did n't look well , not at all well .
`` Would n't get her off 'tall unless she was in a coma , '' Vera said , pronouncing the word in the downcast fashion : comer .
`` When Stella says 'Frog , ' Alden jumps .
Alden ai n't but half-bright , you know .
Stella pretty much runs him . ''
`` Oh , ayuh ? ''
Annie said .
Just then there was a metallic crackling sound on the line .
Vera could hear Annie Phillips for a moment longer -- not the words , just the sound of her voice going on behind the crackling -- and then there was nothing .
The wind had gusted up high and the phone lines had gone down , maybe into Godlin 's Pond or maybe down by Sorrow 's Cove , where they went into the Reach sheathed in rubber .
It was possible that they had gone down on the other side , on the Head ... and some might even have said ( only half-joking ) that Russell Bowie had reached up a cold hand to snap the cable , just for the hell of it .
Not 700 feet away Stella Flanders lay under her puzzle-quilt and listened to the dubious music of Alden 's snores in the other room .
Who 'll turn the earth this April ?
she wondered as she lay cold and curled under her puzzle-quilt .
And as a dream in a dream , her voice answered her voice : Do you love ?
The wind gusted , rattling the storm window .
It seemed that the storm window was talking to her , but she turned her face away from its words .
And did not cry. '
'But Gram , '' Lona would press { she never gave up , not that one , she was like her mom , and her grandmother before her ) , `` you still have n't told why you never went across . ''
' 'Why , child , I have always had everything I wanted right here on Goat . ''
`` But it 's so small .
We live in Portland .
There 's buses , Gram ! ''
' 'I see enough of what goes on in cities on the TV .
I guess I 'll stay where I am . ''
Hal was younger , but somehow more intuitive ; he would not press her as his sister might , but his question would go closer to the heart of things : `` You never wanted to go across , Gram ?
Never ? ''
And she would lean toward him , and take his small hands , and tell him how her mother and father had come to the island shortly after they were married , and how Bull Symes 's grandfather had taken Stella 's father as a 'prentice on his boat .
She would tell him how her mother had conceived four times but one of her babies had miscarried and another had died a week after birth -- she would have left the island if they could have saved it at the mainland hospital , but of course it was over before that was even thought of .
She would tell them that Bill had delivered Jane , their grandmother , but not that when it was over he had gone into the bathroom and first puked and then wept like a hysterical woman who had her monthlies particularly bad .
She would say : `` Louis and Margaret Godlin begat Stella Godlin , who became Stella Flanders ; Bill and Stella Flanders begat Jane and Alden Flanders and Jane Flanders became Jane Wakefield ; Richard and Jane Wakefield begat Lois Wake-field , who became Lois Perrault ; David and Lois Perrault begat Lona and Hal .
Those are your names , children : you are Godlin-Flanders-Wakefield-Perrault .
Your blood is in the stones of this island , and I stay here because the mainland is too far to reach .
Yes , I love ; I have loved , anyway , or at least tried to love , but memory is so wide and so deep , and I can not cross .
Godlin-Flanders-Wakefield-Perrault ... '' That was the coldest February since the National Weather Service began keeping records , and by the middle of the month the ice covering the Reach was safe .
Snowmobiles buzzed and whined and sometimes turned over when they climbed the ice-heaves wrong .
Children tried to skate , found the ice too bumpy to be any fun , and went back to Godlin 's Pond on the far side of the hill , but not before little Justin McCracken , the minister 's son , caught his skate in a fissure and broke his ankle .
They took him over to the hospital on the mainland where a doctor who owned a Corvette told him , `` Son , it 's going to be as good as new . ''
Freddy Dinsmore died very suddenly just three days after Justin McCracken broke his ankle .
He caught the flu late in January , would not have the doctor , told everyone it was `` Just a cold from goin out to get the mail without m'scarf , '' took to his bed , and died before anyone could take him across to the mainland and hook him up to all those machines they have waiting for guys like Freddy .
His son George , a tosspot of the first water even at the advanced age ( for tosspots , anyway ) of sixty-eight , found Freddy with a copy of the Bangor Daily News in one hand and his Remington , unloaded , near the other .
Apparently he had been thinking of cleaning it just before he died .
George Dinsmore went on a three-week toot , said toot financed by someone who knew that George would have his old dad 's insurance money coming .
Hattie Stoddard went around telling anyone who would listen that old George Dinsmore was a sin and a disgrace , no better than a tramp for pay .
There was a lot of flu around .
The school closed for two weeks that February instead of the usual one because so many pupils were out sick .
`` No snow breeds germs , '' Sarah Havelock said .
Near the end of the month , just as people were beginning to look forward to the false comfort of March , Alden Flanders caught the flu himself .
He walked around with it for nearly a week and then took to his bed with a fever of a hundred and one .
Like Freddy , he refused to have the doctor , and Stella stewed and fretted and worried .
Alden was not as old as Freddy , but that May he would turn sixty .
The snow came at last .
Six inches on Valentine 's Day , another six on the twentieth , and a foot in a good old norther on the leap , February 29 .
The snow lay white and strange between the cove and the mainland , like a sheep 's meadow where there had been only gray and surging water at this time of year since time out of mind .
Several people walked across to the mainland and back .
No snowshoes were necessary this year because the snow had frozen to a firm , glittery crust .
They might take a knock of whiskey , too , Stella thought , but they would not take it at Dorrit 's .
Dorrit 's had burned down in 1958 .
And she saw Bill all four times .
Once he told her : `` Y'ought to come soon , Stella .
We 'll go steppin .
What do you say ? ''
`` Yep , I ai n't lost it yet , '' Brad says , and tucks the nozzle of the hose under his arm so he can open the weekly handout and see what 's on the front page .
It 'll be the same old crap , of course-yard sales and community puffery-but he wants to get a look , anyway .
Just human nature , he supposes .
Across the street , at 250 , Johnny Marinville is sitting on his front step , playing his guitar and singing along .
One of the world 's dumber folk-songs , but Marinville plays well , and although no one will ever mistake him for Marvin Gaye ( or Perry Como , for that matter ) , he can carry a tune and stay in key .
Brad has always found this slightly offensive ; a man who 's good at one thing should be content with that and let the rest of it go , Brad feels .
Gary Ripton , fourteen , crewcut , plays backup shortstop for the Wentworth American Legion team ( the Hawks , currently 14-4 with two games left to play ) , tosses the next Shopper on to the porch of 249 , the Soderson place .
The Josephsons are the Poplar Street Black Couple ; the Sodersons , Gary and Marielle , are the Poplar Street Bohemians .
On the scales of public opinion , the Sodersons pretty much balance each other .
Gary is , by and large , a helpout kind of guy , and liked by his neighbours in spite of the fact that he 's at least half-lit nearly all of the time .
Marielle , however ... well , as Pie Carver has been known to say , `` There 's a word for women like Marielle ; it rhymes with the one for how you kick a football . ''
He is wearing an apron with the words YOU MAY KISS THE COOK on the front .
It 's too early to start the steaks , but it 's never too early to get ready .
There is an umbrella-shaded picnic table in the middle of the Soderson backyard , and standing on it is Gary 's portable bar : a bottle of olives , a bottle of gin , and a bottle of vermouth .
The bottle of vermouth has not been opened .
A double martini stands in front of it .
Gary finishes overloading the barbecue , goes to the table , and swallows what 's left in the glass .
He is very partial to martinis , and tends to be in the bag by four o'clock or so on most days when he does n't have to teach .
Today is no exception .
`` All right , '' Gary says , `` next case . ''
He then proceeds to make another Soderson Martini .
He does this by a ) filling his martini glass to the three-quarters point with Bombay gin ; b ) popping in an Amati olive ; c ) tipping the rim of the glass against the unopened bottle of vermouth for good luck .
He tastes ; closes his eyes ; tastes again .
His eyes , already quite red , open .
He smiles .
`` Yes , ladies and gentlemen ! ''
he tells his simmering backyard .
`` We have a winner ! ''
Faintly , over all the other sounds of summer-kids , mowers , muscle-cars , sprinklers , singing bugs in the baked grass of his back yard-Gary can hear the writer 's guitar , a sweet and easy sound .
He picks out the tune almost at once and dances around the circle of shade thrown by the umbrella with his glass in his hand , singing along : `` So kiss me and smile for me ... Tell me that you 'll wait for me ...
Hold me like you 'll never let me go ... '' A good tune , one he remembers from before the Reed twins two houses down were even thought of , let alone born .
For just a moment he is struck by the reality of time 's passage , how stark it is , and unappealable .
It passes the ear with a sound like iron .
He takes another big sip of his martini and wonders what to do now that the barbecue is ready for liftoff .
Along with the other sounds he can hear the shower upstairs , and he thinks of Marielle naked in there-the bitch of the western world , but she 's kept her body in good shape .
He thinks of her soaping her breasts , maybe caressing her nipples with the tips of her fingers in a circular motion , making them hard .
Of course she 's doing nothing of the damned kind , but it 's the sort of image that just wo n't go away unless you do something to pop it .
He decides to be a twentieth-century version of St George ; he will fuck the dragon instead of slaying it .
He puts his martini glass down on the picnic table and starts for the house .
Oh gosh , it 's summertime , summertime , sum-sum-summertime , and on Poplar Street the living is easy .
Gary Ripton checks his rearview mirror for traffic , sees none , and swerves easterly across the street to the Carver house .
He has n't bothered with Mr Marinville because , at the start of the summer , Mr Marinville gave him five dollars not to deliver the Shopper .
`` Please , Gary , '' he said , his eyes solemn and earnest .
`` I ca n't read about another supermarket opening or drugstore jamboree .
It 'll kill me if I do . ''
Gary does n't understand Mr Marinville in the slightest , but he is a nice enough man , and five bucks is five bucks .
Mrs Carver opens the front door of 248 Poplar and waves as Gary easy-tosses her the Shopper .
She grabs for it , misses completely , and laughs .
Gary laughs with her .
She does n't have Brad Josephson 's hands , or reflexes , but she 's pretty and a hell of a good sport .
Her husband is beside the house , wearing his bathing suit and flipflops , washing the car .
He catches a glimpse of Gary out of the corner of his eye , turns , points a finger .
Gary points one right back , and they pretend to shoot each other .
This is Mr Carver 's crippled but game effort to be cool , and Gary respects that .
David Carver works for the post office , and Gary figures he must be on vacation this week .
The boy makes a vow to himself : if he has to settle for a regular nine-to-five job when he grows up ( he knows that , like diabetes and kidney failure , this does happen to some people ) , he will never spend his vacation at home , washing his car in the driveway .
I 'm not going to have a car , anyway , he thinks .
Going to have a motorcycle .
No Japanese bike , either .
Big damn old Harley-Davidson like the one Mr Marinville keeps in his garage .
American steel .
He checks the rearview again and catches sight of something bright red up on Bear Street beyond the Josephson place-a van , it looks like , parked just beyond the southwestern corner of the intersection-and then swoops his Schwinn back across the street again , this time to 247 , the Wyler place .
Of the occupied houses on the street ( 242 , the old Hobart place , is vacant ) , the Wyler place is the only one which even approaches seedy-it 's a small ranch-style home that could use a fresh coat of paint , and a fresh coat of seal on the driveway .
There 's a sprinkler twirling on the lawn , but the grass is still showing the effects of the hot , dry weather in a way the other lawns on the street ( including the lawn of the vacant Hobart house , actually ) are not .
There are yellow patches , small right now but spreading .
She does n't know that water is n't enough , Gary thinks , reaching into his canvas bag for another rolled-up Shopper .
Her husband might 've , but- He suddenly realizes that Mrs Wyler ( he guesses that widows are still called Mrs ) is standing inside the screen door , and something about seeing her there , hardly more than a silhouette , startles him badly .
He wobbles on his bike for a moment , and when he throws the rolled-up paper his usually accurate aim is way off .
The Shopper lands atop one of the shrubs flanking the front steps .
Not today , though .
There 's something here he does n't like .
Something about the way she 's standing inside the screen door , shoulders slumped and hands dangling , like a kid 's toy with the batteries pulled .
And that 's maybe not all that 's out of kilter , either .
He ca n't see her well enough to be sure , but he thinks maybe Mrs Wyler is naked from the waist up , that she 's standing there in her front hall wearing nothing but a pair of shorts .
Standing there and staring at him .
If so , it 's not sexy .
It 's creepy .
The kid that stays with her , her nephew , that little weasel 's creepy , too .
Seth Garland or Garin or something like that .
He never talks , not even if you talk to him-hey , how you doin , you like it around here , you think the Indians 'll make it to the Series again-just looks at you with his mud-colored eyes .
Looks at you the way Gary feels Mrs Wyler , who is usually nice , is looking at him now .
Like step into my parlor said the spider to the fly , like that .
Her husband died last year ( right around the time the Hobarts had that trouble and moved away , now that he thinks of it ) , and people say it was n't an accident .
People say that Herb Wyler , who collected stamps and had once given Gary an old air rifle , committed suicide .
Gooseflesh-somehow twice as scary on a day as hot as this one-ripples up his back and he banks back across the street after another cursory look into the rearview mirror .
The red van is still up there near the corner of Bear and Poplar ( some spiffy rig , the boy thinks ) , and this time there is a vehicle coming down the street , as well , a blue Acura Gary recognizes at once .
It 's Mr Jackson , the block 's other teacher .
Not high school in his case , however ; Mr Jackson is actually Professor Jackson , or maybe it 's just Assistant Professor Jackson .
He teaches at Ohio State , go you Buckeyes .
The Jacksons live at 244 , one up from the old Hobart place .
It 's the nicest house on the block , a roomy Cape Cod with a high hedge on the downhill side and a high cedar stake fence on the uphill side , between them and the old veterinarian 's place .
`` Yo , Gary ! ''
Peter Jackson says , pulling up beside him .
He 's wearing faded jeans and a tee-shirt with a big yellow smile-face on it .
HAVE A NICE DAY !
Mr Smiley-Smile is saying .
`` How 's it going , bad boy ? ''
`` Great , Mr Jackson , '' Gary says , smiling .
`` Just make it out to Michela , '' she said .
`` Pretty please with sugar on it ? ''
The simper reappeared , like an old acquaintance you 'd hoped was dead .
`` Uh-huh , '' Kinnell said , and wrote his standard thanks-for-being-a-fan message .
He did n't have to watch his hands or even think about it anymore , not after twenty-five years of writing autographs .
`` Tell me about the picture , and the Hastingses . ''
Judy Diment folded her pudgy hands in the manner of a woman about to recite a favorite story .
`` Bobby was just twenty-three when he killed himself this spring .
Can you believe that ?
He was the tortured genius type , you know , but still living at home . ''
Her eyes rolled , again asking Kinnell if he could imagine it .
`` He must have had seventy , eighty paintings , plus all his sketchbooks .
Down in the basement , they were . ''
She pointed her chin at the Cape Cod , then looked at the picture of the fiendish young man driving across the Tobin Bridge at sunset .
`` Iris-that 's Bobby 's mother - said most of them were real bad , lots worse'n this .
Stuff that 'd curl your hair . ''
She lowered her voice to a whisper , glancing at a woman who was looking at the Hastings ' mismatched silverware and a pretty good collection of old McDonald 's plastic glasses in a Honey , I Shrunk the Kids motif .
`` Most of them had sex stuff in them . ''
`` Oh no , '' Kinnell said .
`` He did the worst ones after he got on drugs , '' Judy Diment continued .
`` After he was dead-he hung himself down in the basement , where he used to paint-they found over a hundred of those little bottles they sell crack cocaine in .
Are n't drugs awful , Mr .
Kinnell ? ''
`` They sure are . ''
`` Anyway , I guess he finally just got to the end of his rope , no pun intended .
He took all of his sketches and paintings out into the back yard-except for that one , I guess - and burned them .
Then he hung himself down in the basement .
He pinned a note to his shirt .
It said , 'I ca n't stand what 's happening to me . '
Is n't that awful , Mr. Kinnell ?
Is n't that just the awfulest thing you ever heard ? ''
'Yes , '' Kinnell said , sincerely enough .
`` It just about is . ''
'Like I say , I think George would go right on living in the house if he had his druthers , `` Judy Diment said .
She took the sheet of paper with Michela 's autograph on it , held it up next to Kinnell 's check , and shook her head , as if the similarity of the signatures amazed her .
`` But men are different . ''
`` Are they ? ''
`` Oh , yes , much less sensitive .
By the end of his life , Bobby Hastings was just skin and bone , dirty all the time-you could smell him - and he wore the same T-shirt , day in and day out .
It had a picture of the Led Zeppelins on it .
His eyes were red , he had a scraggle on his cheeks that you could n't quite call a beard , and his pimples were coming back , like he was a teenager again .
But she loved him , because a mother 's love sees past all those things . ''
The woman who had been looking at the silverware and the glasses came over with a set of Star Wars placemats .
Mrs. Diment took five I dollars for them , wrote the sale carefully down on her pad below `` ONE DOZ .
ASSORTED POTHOLDERS and HOTPADS , '' then turned back to Kinnell .
They went out to Arizona , '' she said , `` to stay with Iris 's folks .
I know George is looking for work out there in Flagstaff-he 's a draftsman-but I do n't know if he 's found any yet .
If he has , I suppose we might not ever see them again here in Rosewood .
She marked out all the stuff she wanted me to sell-Iris did - and told me I could keep twenty percent for my trouble .
I 'll send a check for the rest .
There wo n't be much . ''
She sighed .
`` The picture is great , '' Kinnell said .
`` Yeah , too bad he burned the rest , because most of this other stuff is your standard yard sale crap , pardon my French .
What 's that ? ''
Kinnell had turned the picture around .
There was a length of Dymotape pasted to the back .
`` A tide , I think . ''
`` What does it say ? ''
It fits , he thought .
If ever a title futted a painting , this one does. ''
The Road Virus Heads North , '' she read .
`` I never noticed that when my boys were lugging stuff out .
Is it the tide , do you think ? ''
`` Must be . ''
Kinnell could n't take his eyes off the blond kid 's grin .
I know something , the grin said .
I know something you never will .
`` I 've got to be heading north myself , '' Kinnell said , tucking the picture under his arm .
`` Thanks for- '' '' Mr .
Kinnell ? ''
`` Yes ? ''
`` Can I see your driver 's license ? ''
She apparently found nothing ironic or even amusing in this request .
`` I ought to write the number on the back of your check . ''
Kinnell put the picture down so he could dig for his wallet .
`` Sure .
You bet . ''
The woman who 'd bought the Star Wars placemats had paused on her way back to her car to watch some of the soap opera playing on the lawn TV .
Now she glanced at the picture , which Kinnell had propped against his shins .
`` Ag , '' she said .
`` Who 'd want an ugly old thing like that ?
I 'd think about it every time I turned the lights out . ''
`` What 's wrong with that ? ''
Kinnell asked .
Kinnell 's Aunt Trudy lived in Wells , which is about six miles north of the Maine - New Hampshire border .
Kinnell pulled off at the exit which circled the bright green Wells water tower , the one with the comic sign on it ( KEEP MAINE GREEN , BRING MONEY in letters four feet high ) , and five minutes later he was turning into the driveway of her neat little saltbox house .
No TV sinking into the lawn on paper ashtrays here , only Aunt Trudy 's amiable masses of flowers .
Kinnell needed to pee and had n't wanted to take care of that in a roadside rest stop when he could come here , but he also wanted an update on all the family gossip .
Aunt Trudy retailed the best ; she was to gossip what Zabar 's is to deli .
Also , of course , he wanted to show her his new acquisition .
She came out to meet him , gave him a hug , and covered his face with her patented little birdy-kisses , the ones that had made him shiver all over as a kid .
`` Want to see something ? ''
he asked her .
`` It 'll blow your pantyhose off . ''
`` What a charming thought , '' Aunt Trudy said , clasping her elbows in her palms and looking at him with amusement .
He opened the trunk and took out his new picture .
It affected her , all right , but not in the way he had expected .
The color fell out of her face in a sheet-he had never seen anything quite like it in his entire life .
Smell-So-Sweet . ''
She closed the notebook with a vicious snap and settled down to watch the next game .
MINUS 099 AND COUNTING The drizzle had deepened into a steady rain by the time Richards hit the street .
The big Smoke Dokes for Hallucinogenic Jokes thermometer across the street stood at fifty-one degrees .
( Just the Right Temp to Stoke Up a Doke-High to the Nth Degree .
That might make it sixty in their apartment .
And Cathy had the flu .
A rat trotted lazily , lousily , across the cracked and blistered cement of the street .
Across the way , the ancient and rusted skeleton of a 2013 Humber stood on decayed axles .
It had been completely stripped , even to the wheel bearings and motor mounts , but the cops did n't take it away .
The cops rarely ventured south of the Canal anymore .
Co-Op City stood in a radiating rat warren of parking lots , deserted shops , Urban Centers , and paved playgrounds .
The cycle gangs were the law here , and all those newsie items about the intrepid Block Police of South City were nothing but a pile of warm crap .
The streets were ghostly , silent .
If you went out , you took the pneumo bus or you carried a gas cylinder .
He walked fast , not looking around , not thinking .
The air was sulphurous and thick .
Four cycles roared past and someone threw a ragged hunk of asphalt paving .
Richards ducked easily .
Two pneumo buses passed him , buffeting him with air , but he did not flag them .
The week 's twenty-dollar unemployment allotment ( oldbucks ) had been spent .
There was no money to buy a token .
He supposed the roving packs could sense his poverty .
He was not molested .
Highrises , Developments , chain-link fences , parking lots empty except for stripped derelicts , obscenities scrawled on the pavement in soft chalk and now blurring with the rain .
Crashed-out windows , rats , wet bags of garbage splashed over the sidewalks and into the gutters .
Graffiti written jaggedly on crumbling gray walls : HONKY DO N'T LET THE SUN SET ON YOU HEAR .
HOME FOLKS BLOW DOKES .
YOUR MOMMY ITCHES .
SKIN YOUR BANANA .
TOMMY 'S PUSHING .
HITLER WAS COOL .
MARY .
SID .
KILL ALL KIKES .
The old G.A .
sodium lights put up in the 70s busted with rocks and hunks of paving .
No technico was going to replace them down here ; they were on the New Credit Dollar .
Technicos stay uptown , baby .
Uptown 's cool .
Everything silent except for the rising-then-descending whoosh of the pneumo buses and the echoing clack of Richards 's footfalls .
This battlefield only lights up at night .
In the day it is a deserted gray silence which contains no movement but the cats and rats and fat white maggots trundling across the garbage .
No smell but the decaying reek of this brave year 2025 .
The Free-Vee cables are safely buried under the streets and no one but an idiot or a revolutionary would want to vandalize them .
Free-Vee is the stuff of dreams , the bread of life .
Scag is twelve oldbucks a bag , Frisco Push goes for twenty a tab , but the Free-Vee will freak you for nothing .
Farther along , on the other side of the Canal , the dream machine ions twenty-four hours a day ... but it runs on New Dollars , and only employed people have any .
There are four million others , almost all of them unemployed , south of the Canal in Co-Op City .
Richards walked three miles and the occasional liquor stores and smoke shops , at first heavily grilled , become more numerous .
Then the X-Houses ( !
! 24 Perversions-Count 'Em 24 ! !
) , the Hockeries , the Blood Emporiums .
Greasers sitting on cycles at every corner , the gutters buried in snowdrifts of roach ends .
Rich Blokes Smoke Dokes .
He could see the skyscrapers rising into the clouds now , high and clean .
The highest of all was the Network Games Building , one hundred stories , the top half buried in cloud and smog cover .
He fixed his eyes on it and walked another mile .
Now the more expensive movie houses , and smoke shops with no grills ( but Rent-A-Pigs stood outside , electric move-alongs hanging from their Sam Browne belts ) .
A city cop on every corner .
The People 's Fountain Park : Admission 75c .
Well-dressed mothers watching their children as they frolicked on the astroturf behind chain-link fencing .
A cop on either side of the gate .
A tiny , pathetic glimpse of the fountain .
He crossed the Canal .
As he got closer to the Games Building it grew taller , more and more improbable with its impersonal tiers of rising office windows , its polished stonework .
Cops watching him , ready to hustle him along or bust him if he tried to commit loitering .
Uptown there was only one function for a man in baggy gray pants and a cheap bowl haircut and sunken eyes .
That purpose was the Games .
The qualifying examinations began promptly at noon , and when Ben Richards stepped behind the last man in line , he was almost in the umbra of the Games Building .
But the building was still nine blocks and over a mile away .
The line stretched before him like an eternal snake .
Soon others joined it behind him .
The police watched them , hands on either gun butts or move-alongs .
They smiled anonymous , contemptuous smiles .
CThat one look like a half-wit to you , Frank ?
Looks like one to me .
CGuy down there ast me if there was a place where he could go to the bathroom .
Canya magine it ?
CSons of bitches ain't CKill their own mothers for a CSmelled like he did n't have a bath for CAi n't nothin like a freak show I always- Heads down against the rain , they shuffled aimlessly , and after a while the line began to move .
MINUS 098 AND COUNTING It was after four when Ben Richards got to the main desk and was routed to Desk 9 ( Q-R ) .
The woman sitting at the rumbling plastipunch looked tired and cruel and impersonal .
She looked at him and saw no one .
`` Name , last-first-middle . ''
`` Richards , Benjamin Stuart . ''
Her fingers raced over the keys .
Clitter-clitter-clitter went the machine .
`` Age-height-weight . ''
`` Twenty-eight , six-two , one-sixty-five . ''
Clitter-clitter-clitter '' Certified LQ .
by Weschler test if you know it , and age tested . ''
`` One twenty-six .
Age of fourteen . ''
Clitter-clitter-clitter The huge lobby was an echoing , rebounding tomb of sound .
Questions being asked and answered .
People were being led out weeping .
People were being thrown out .
Hoarse voices were raised in protest .
A scream or two .
Questions .
Anderson 's first thought was that the skidders who had logged this land in the twenties and thirties must have buried a bunch of their leavings here C the cast-off swill of a three-day cutting , which in those days had been called a 'loggers ' weekend . '
A tin can , she thought C BandM Beans or Campbell 's soup .
She wiggled it the way you 'd wiggle a tin can out of the earth .
Then it occurred to her that no one except a toddler would be apt to trip over the leading edge of a can .
The metal in the earth did n't wiggle .
It was as solid as mother-rock .
A piece of old logging equipment , maybe ?
Intrigued , Anderson examined it more closely , not seeing that Peter had gotten to his feet , backed away another four paces , and sat down again .
The metal was a dull gray C not the bright color of tin or iron at all .
And it was thicker than a can , maybe a quarter-inch at its top .
Anderson placed the pad of her right index finger on this edge and felt a momentary odd tingling , like a vibration .
She took her finger away and looked at it quizzically .
Put it back .
Nothing .
No buzz .
Now she pinched it between her thumb and finger and tried to draw it from the earth like a loose tooth from a gum .
It did n't come .
She was gripping the protrusion in the rough center .
It sank back into the earth C or that was the impression she had then C on either side at a width of less than two inches .
She would later tell Jim Gardener that she could have walked past it three times a day for forty years and never stumbled over it .
She brushed away loose soil , exposing a little more of it .
She dug a channel along it about two inches deep with her fingers C the soil gave easily enough , as forest soil does ... at least until you hit the webwork of roots .
It continued smoothly down into the ground .
Anderson got up on her knees and dug down along either side .
She tried wiggling it again .
Still no go .
She scraped away more soil with her fingers and quickly exposed more C now she saw six inches of gray metal , now nine , now a foot .
It 's a car or a truck or a skidder , she thought suddenly .
Buried out here in the middle of nowhere .
Or maybe a Hooverville kind of stove .
But why here ?
No reason that she could think of ; no reason at all .
She found things in the woods from time to time C shell casings , beer cans ( the oldest not with pop-tops but with triangle-shaped holes made by what they had called a 'churchkey ' back in those dim dead days of the 1960s ) , candy wrappers , other stuff .
Haven was not on either of Maine 's two major tourist tracks , one of which runs through the take and mountain region to the extreme west of the state and the other of which runs up the coast to the extreme east , but it had not been the forest primeval for a long , long time .
No reason that hulk of a car should have been there , either ... but it was easier to explain than a stove or a refrigerator or any other damn thing actually buried in the ground .
She had dug twin trenches a foot long on either side of the object without finding its end .
She got down almost a foot before scraping her fingers on rock .
She might have been able to pull the rock out C that at least had some wiggle C but there was no reason to do it .
The object in the earth continued down past it .
Peter whined .
Anderson glanced at the dog , then stood up .
Both knees popped .
Her left foot tingled with pins and needles .
She fished her pocket watch out of her pants C old and tarnished , the Simon watch was another part of her legacy from Uncle Frank -and was astonished to see that she had been here a long time C an hour and a quarter at least .
It was past four .
'Come on , Pete , ' she said .
'Let 's bug out . '
Peter whined again but still would n't move .
And now , with real concern , Anderson saw that her old beagle was shivering all over , as if with ague .
She had no idea if dogs could catch ague , but thought old ones might .
She did recollect that the only time she had ever seen Peter shiver like that was in the fall of 1975 ( or maybe it had been '76 ) .
There had been a catamount on the place .
Over a series of perhaps nine nights it had screamed and squalled , very likely in unrequited heat .
Each night Peter would go to the living-room window and jump up on the old church pew Anderson kept there , by her bookcase .
He never barked .
He only looked out into the dark toward that unearthly , womanish squealing , nostrils flaring , ears up .
And he shivered .
Anderson stepped over her little excavation and went to Peter .
She knelt down and ran her hands along the sides of Peter 's face , feeling the shiver in her palms .
'What 's wrong , boy ? '
she murmured , but she knew what was wrong .
Peter 's good eye shifted past her , toward the thing in the earth , and then back to Anderson .
The plea in the eye not veiled by the hateful , milky cataract was as clear as speech : Let 's get out of here , Bobbi , I like that thing almost as much as I like your sister .
'Okay , ' Anderson said uneasily .
It suddenly occurred to her that she could not remember ever having lost track of time as she had today , out here .
Peter does n't like it .
I do n't , either .
'Come on . '
She started up the slope to the path .
Peter followed with alacrity .
They were almost to the path when Anderson , like Lot 's wife , looked back .
If not for that last glance , she might actually have let the whole thing go .
Since leaving college before finals C in spite of her mother 's tearful pleas and her sister 's furious diatribes and ultimatums C Anderson had gotten good at letting things go .
The look back from this middle distance showed her two things .
First , the thing did not sink back into the earth as she had at first thought .
The tongue of metal was sticking up in the middle of a fairly fresh declivity , not wide but fairly deep , and surely the result of late winter runoff and the heavy spring rains that had followed it .
So the ground to either side of the protruding metal was higher , and the metal simply disappeared back into it .
Her first impression , that the thing in the ground was the corner of something , was n't true after all C or not necessarily true .
Second , it looked like a plate C not a plate you 'd eat from , but a dull metal plate , like metal siding or Peter barked .
'Okay , ' Anderson said .
'I hear you talking .
Let 's go . '
Let 's go ... and let 's let it go .
She walked up the center of the path , letting Peter lead them back toward the woods road at his own bumbling pace , enjoying the lush green of high summer ... and this was the first day of summer , was n't it ?
The solstice .
Longest day of the year .
She slapped a mosquito and grinned .
Summer was a good time in Haven .
The best of times .
And if Haven was n't the best of places , parked as it was well above Augusta in that central part of the state most tourists passed by C it was still a good place to come to rest .
There had been a time when Anderson had honestly believed she would only be here a few years , long enough to recover from the traumas of adolescence , her sister , and her abrupt .
She now thought she might spend the rest of her life in Haven , with the sole exception of the duty trip she took to visit her publisher in New York every year or two .
The town got you .
The place got you .
The land got you .
And that was n't so bad .
It was as good as anything else , maybe .
Like a plate .
And who would be to blame for that ?
Who but the teacher ?
For was he not training her to bite ?
Training both of them to bite ?
Was n't that what a gunslinger was , when you stripped off the few stern lines of ritual and stilled the few iron grace-notes of catechism ?
Was n't he ( or she ) only a human hawk , trained to bite on command ?
`` No , '' he said .
`` They 're not rocks . ''
She raised her eyebrows a little and began to smile again .
Now that she saw he was n't going to explode at her as he sometimes did when she was slow or fractious ( or at least not yet ) , her eyes again took on the mocking sun-on-steel glint he associated with Detta Walker .
`` They ai n't ? ''
The teasing in her voice was still good C nut u red , but he thought it would turn mean if he let it .
She was tense , keyed up , her claws already halfway out of their sheaths .
`` No , they ai n't , '' he said , returning her mockery .
His own smile began to return , but it was hard and humorless .
`` Susannah , do you remember the honk mahfahs ? ''
Her smile began to fade .
`` The honk mahfahs in Oxford Town ? ''
Her smile was gone .
`` Do you remember what the honk mahfahs did to you and your friends ? ''
`` That was n't me , '' she said .
`` That was another woman . ''
Her eyes had taken on a dull , sullen cast .
He hated that look , but he also liked it just fine .
It was the right look , the one that said the kindling was burning well and soon the bigger logs would start to catch .
`` Yes .
It was .
Like it or not , it was Odetta Susannah Holmes , daugh-ter of Sarah Walker Holmes .
Not you as you are , but you as you were .
Remember the fire-hoses , Susannah ?
Remember the gold teeth , how you saw them when they used the hoses on you and your friends in Oxford ?
How you saw them twinkle when they laughed ? ''
She had told them these things , and many others , over many long nights as the campfire burned low .
The gunslinger had n't understood everything , but he had listened carefully , just the same .
And remem-bered .
Pain was a tool , after all .
Sometimes it was the best tool .
`` What 's wrong with you , Roland ?
Why you want to go recallin that trash in my mind ? ''
Now the sullen eyes glinted at him dangerously ; they reminded him of Alain 's eyes when good-natured Alain was finally roused .
`` Yonder stones are those men , '' Roland said softly .
`` The men who locked you in a cell and left you to foul yourself .
The men with the clubs and the dogs .
The men who called you a nigger cunt . ''
He pointed at them , moving his finger from left to right .
`` There 's the one who pinched your breast and laughed .
There 's the one who said he better check and see if you had something stuffed up your ass .
There 's the one who called you a chimpanzee in a five-hundred-dollar dress .
That 's the one that kept running his billyclub over the spokes of your wheelchair until you thought the sound would send you mad .
There 's the one who called your friend Leon pinko-fag .
And the one on the end , Susannah , is Jack Mort .
`` There .
Those stones .
Those men . ''
She was breathing rapidly now , her bosom rising and falling in swift little jerks beneath the gunslinger 's gunbelt with its heavy freight of bul-lets .
Her eyes had left him ; they were looking at the mica-flecked chips of stone .
Behind them and at some distance , a tree splintered and fell over .
More crows called in the sky .
Deep in the game which was no longer a game , neither of them noticed .
`` Oh yeah ? ''
she breathed .
`` That so ? ''
`` It is .
Now say your lesson , Susannah Dean , and be true . ''
C This time the words fell from her lips like small chunks of ice .
Her right hand trembled lightly on the arm of her wheelchair like an idling engine. ''
'I do not aim with my hand ; she who aims with her hand has forgotten the face of her father. ''
'I aim with my eye . '
`` '' Good . ''
`` 'I do not shoot with my hand ; she who shoots with her hand has forgotten the face of her father. ''
'I shoot with my mind . '
`` '' So it has ever been , Susannah Dean . ''
`` 'I do not kill with my gun ; she who kills with her gun has forgotten the face of her father. ''
'I kill with my heart . '
`` '' Then KILL them , for your father 's sake ! ''
Roland shouted .
`` KILL THEM ALL ! ''
Her right hand was a blur between the arm of the chair and the butt of Roland 's sixgun .
It was out in a second , her left hand descending , fanning at the hammer in flutters almost as swift and delicate as the wing of a hummingbird .
Six flat cracks pealed off across the valley , and five of the six chips of stone set atop the boulder blinked out of existence .
For a moment neither of them spoke - did not even breathe , it seemed - as the echoes rolled back and forth , dimming .
Even the crows were silent , at least for the time being .
The gunslinger broke the silence with four toneless yet oddly emphatic words : `` It is very well . ''
Susannah looked at the gun in her hand as if she had never seen it before .
A tendril of smoke rose from the barrel , perfectly straight in the windless silence .
Then , slowly , she returned it to the holster below her bosom .
`` Good , but not perfect , '' she said at last .
`` I missed one . ''
`` Did you ? ''
He walked over to the boulder and picked up the remaining chip of stone .
He glanced at it , then tossed it to her .
She caught it with her left ; her right stayed near the bolstered gun , he saw with approval .
She shot better and more naturally than Eddie , but had not learned this particular lesson as swiftly as Eddie had done .
If she had been with them during the shootout at Balazar 's nightclub , she might have .
Now , Roland saw , she was at last learning that , too .
She looked at the stone and saw the notch , barely a sixteenth of an inch deep , in its upper corner .
`` You only clipped it , '' Roland said , returning to her , `` but in a shooting scrape , sometimes that 's all you wed .
If you clip a fellow , throw his aim off ... '' He paused .
`` Why anC you looking at me that way ? ''
`` You do n't know , do you ?
A good old shanty-Irish mick .
Sonny , and you better not forget it ! ''
To that he added , almost too low to be heard , `` Even if I did lose most of my hair , it was red . ''
I started to say something , but he did n't give me the chance .
He swung me around and pressed his face down until our noses almost touched .
I have never seen such anger and humiliation and rage and determination in a man 's face .
You never see that look on a white face these days , how it is to be hurt and made to feel small .
All that love and hate .
But I saw it on his face that night and knew I could crack wise a few more times and get my ass killed .
`` She 's fat , '' he half-whispered , and I could smell checker-berry mints on his breath .
`` A lot of people have been laughing at me while my back was turned .
They do n't do it when 1 can see them , though , I 'll tell you that , Mr. Cornet Player .
Because maybe this dago was all she could get .
But you 're not gon na laugh at me or her or the dago .
And nobody else is , either .
Because you 're gon na play too loud .
No one is going to laugh at my sis . ''
`` We never laugh when we play our gigs .
Makes it too hard to pucker . ''
That relieved the tension .
He laughed -- a short , barking laugh .
`` You be there , ready to play at five .
The Sons of Erin on Grover Street .
I 'll pay your expenses both ways , too . ''
He was n't asking .
I felt railroaded into the decision , but he was n't giving me time to talk it over .
He was already striding away , and one of his chaperones was holding open the back door of a Packard coupe .
They drove away .
I stayed out awhile longer and had a smoke .
The evening was soft and fine and Scollay seemed more and more like something I might have dreamed .
I was just wishing we could bring the bandstand out to the parking lot and play when Biff tapped me on the shoulder .
`` Time , '' he said .
`` Okay . ''
We went back in .
The redhead had picked up some salt-and-pepper sailor who looked twice her age .
I do n't know what a member of the U.S. Navy was doing in Illinois , but as far as I was concerned , she could have him if her taste was that bad .
I did n't feel so good .
The rye had gone to my head , and Scollay seemed a lot more real in here , where the fumes of what he and his kind sold were strong enough to float on .
`` We had a request for 'Camptown Races , ' `` Charlie said .
`` Forget it , '' I said curtly .
`` We do n't play that nigger stuff till after midnight . ''
I could see Billy-Boy stiffen as he was sitting down to the piano , and then his face was smooth again .
I could have kicked myself around the.block , but , goddammit , a man ca n't shift gears on his mouth overnight , or in a year , or maybe even in ten .
In those days nigger was a word I hated and kept saying .
I went over to him .
`` I 'm sorry , Bill -- I have n't been myself tonight . ''
`` Sure , '' he said , but his eyes looked over my shoulder and I knew my apology was n't accepted .
That was bad , but I 'll tell you what was worse -- knowing he was disappointed in me .
I told them about the gig during our next break , being square with them about the money and how Scollay was a hoodlum ( although I did n't tell them about the other hood who was out to get him ) .
I also told them that Scollay 's sister was fat and Scollay was sensitive about it .
Anyone who cracked any jokes about inland barges might wind up with a third breather-hole , somewhat above the other two .
I kept looking at Billy-Boy Williams while I talked , but you could read nothing on the cat 's face .
It would be easier trying to figure out what a walnut was thinking by reading the wrinkles on the shell .
Billy-Boy was the best piano player we ever had , and we were all sorry about the little ways it got taken out on him as we traveled from one place to another .
In the south was the worst , of course -- Jim Crow car , nigger heaven at the movies , stuff like that -- but it was n't that great in the north , either .
But what could I do ?
Huh ?
You go on and tell me .
In those days you lived with those differences .
We turned up at the Sons of Erin Hall on Friday at four o'clock , an hour before .
We drove up in the special Ford truck Biff and Manny and me put together .
The back end was all enclosed with canvas , and there were two cots bolted on the floor .
We even had an electric hotplate that ran off the battery , and the band 's name was painted on the outside .
The day was just right -- a ham-and-egger if you ever saw one , with little white summer clouds casting shadows on the fields .
But once we got into the city it was hot and kind of grim , full of the hustle and bustle you got out of touch with in a place like Morgan .
By the time we got to the hall my clothes were'sticking to me and I needed to visit the comfort station .
I could have used a shot of Tommy Englander 's rye , too .
The Sons of Erin was a big wooden building , affiliated with the church where Scollay 's sis was getting married .
You know the sort of place I mean if you ever took the Wafer , 1 guess -- CYO meetings on Tuesdays , bingo on Wednesdays , and a sociable for the kids on Saturday nights .
Maureen and Rico .
Damned if I could n't see why Scollay was so wound up .
Maureen and Rico .
Stone the crows .
The thin lady swooped down on us .
She looked like she had a lot to say so I beat her to punch .
`` We 're the band , '' I said .
`` The band ? ''
She blinked at our instruments distrustfully .
`` Oh .
I was hoping you were the caterers . ''
I smiled as if caterers always carried snare drums and trombone cases .
`` You can -- '' she began , but just then a ruff-tuff-creampuff of about nineteen strolled over .
A cigarette was dangling from the comer of his mouth , but so far as I could see it was n't doing a thing for his image except making his left eye water .
`` Open that shit up , '' he said .
Charlie and Biff looked at me .
I shrugged .
We opened our cases and he looked at the horns .
Seeing nothing that looked like you could load it and fire it , he wandered back to his comer and sat down on a folding chair .
`` You can set your things up right away , '' the thin lady went on , as if she had never been interrupted .
`` There 's a piano in the other room .
I 'll have my men wheel it in when we 're done putting up our decorations . ''
Biff was already lugging his drum-kit up on to the little stage .
`` I thought you were the caterers , '' she repeated in a distraught way .
`` Mr. Scollay ordered a wedding cake and there are hors d'oeuvres and roasts of beef and -- '' '' They 'll be here , ma'am , '' I said .
`` They get payment on delivery . ''
' -- two roasts of pork and a capon and Mr. Scollay will be just furious if -- '' She saw one of her men pausing to light a cigarette just below a dangling streamer of crepe and shrieked , `` HENRY ! ''
The man jumped as if he had been shot .
I escaped to the bandstand .
We were all set up by a quarter of five .
Charlie , the trombone player , was wah-wahing away into a mute and Biff was loosening up his wrists .
If there had been air-conditioning in the place it might have been different .
But the old house was too big for that - or so they had said back then .
The ceilings soared fourteen feet overhead .
And the sluggish breeze carried with it the scent of mold .
His patient was well cared for , however .
That he had to admit .
A sweet old black nurse named Viola brought his patient out on the screened porch in the morning and took her in at evening .
'She 's no trouble at all , Doctor .
Now , you come on , Miss Deirdre , walk for the doctor . '
Viola would lift her out of the chair and push her patiently step by step .
'I 've been with her seven years now , Doctor , she 's my sweet girl . '
Seven years like that .
No wonder the woman 's feet had started to turn in at the ankles , and her arms to draw close to her chest if the nurse did n't force them down into her lap again .
Viola would walk her round and round the long double parlor , past the harp and the B ? sendorfer grand layered with dust .
Into the long broad dining room with its faded murals of moss-hung oaks and tilled fields .
Slippered feet shuffling on the worn Aubusson carpet .
The woman was forty-one years old , yet she looked both ancient and young - a stooped and pale child , untouched by adult worry or passion .
Deirdre , did you ever have a lover ?
Did you ever dance in that parlor ?
On the library bookshelves were leather-bound ledgers with old dates marked on the spines in faded purple ink : 1756 , 1757,1758 Each bore the family name of Mayfair in gold lettering .
Ah , these old southern families , how he envied them their heritage .
It did not have to lead to this decay .
And to think , he did not know the full names of his own great-grandparents or where they had been born .
Mayfair - a vintage colonial clan .
There were old paintings on the walls of men and women in eighteenth-century dress , as well as daguerreotypes and tintypes and faded photographs .
A yellowed map of Saint-Domingue - did they call it that still ?
-in a dirty frame in the hallway .
And a darkening painting of a great plantation house .
And look at the jewels his patient wore .
Heirlooms surely , with those antique settings .
What did it mean that they put that kind of jewelry on a woman who had n't spoken a word or moved of her own volition in over seven years ?
The nurse said she never took off the chain with the emerald pendant , not even when she bathed Miss Deirdre .
'Let me tell you a little secret , Doctor , do n't you ever touch that ! '
'And why not ? '
he wanted to ask .
But he had said nothing .
He watched uneasily as the nurse put on the patient 's ruby earrings , her diamond ring .
Like dressing a corpse , he thought .
And out there the dark oaks wind their limbs towards the dusty window screens .
And the garden shimmers in the dull heat .
'And look at her hair , ' said the nurse lovingly .
'Have you ever seen such beautiful hair ? '
It was black all right , and thick and curly and long .
The nurse loved to brush it , watching the curls roll up as the brush released them .
And the patient 's eyes , for all their listless stare , were a clear blue .
Yet now and then a thin silver line of saliva fell down from the side of her mouth , making a dark circle on the bosom of her white nightgown .
'It 's a wonder somebody has n't tried to steal those things , ' he said half to himself .
'She 's so helpless . '
The nurse had given him a superior , knowing smile .
'No one who 's ever worked in this house would try that . '
'But she sits all alone on that side porch by the hour .
You can see her from the street . '
Laughter .
'Do n't worry about that , Doctor .
No one around here is fool enough to come in that gate .
Old Ronnie mows the lawn , but that 's because he always did , done it for thirty years now , but then old Ronnie is n't exactly right in the head . '
'Nevertheless ' But he had stopped himself .
What was he doing , talking like this right in front of the silent woman , whose eyes only now and then moved just a little , whose hands lay just where the nurse had placed them , whose feet rested limply on the bare floor .
How easy it was to forget oneself , forget to respect this tragic creature .
Nobody knew what the woman understood .
'Might get her out in the sun sometime , ' the doctor said .
'Her skin is so white . '
But he knew the garden was impossible , even far away from the reek of the pool .
The thorny bougainvillea burst in clumps from beneath the wild cherry laurel .
Fat little cherubs , streaked with slime , peered out of overgrown lantana like ghosts .
Yet once children had played there .
Some boy or girl had carved the word Lasher into the thick trunk of the giant crepe myrtle that grew against the far fence .
The deep gashes had weathered so that they gleamed white against the waxy bark .
Strange word that .
And a wooden swing was still hanging from the branch of the distant oak .
He 'd walked back to that lonely tree , and sat down on the swing for a moment , felt the rusted chains creak , then move as he pushed his foot into the crushed grass .
The southern flank of the house looked mammoth and overwhelmingly beautiful to him from this perspective , the flowering vines climbing together all the way up past the green shuttered windows to the twin chimneys above the third floor .
The dark bamboo rattled in the breeze against the plastered masonry .
The glossy banana trees grew so high and dense they made a jungle clear back to the brick wall .
It was like his patient , this old place - beautiful yet forgotten by time , by urgency .
Her face might be pretty still if it were not so utterly lifeless .
Did she see the delicate purple clusters of wisteria , shivering against the screens , the writhing tangle of other blooms ?
Could she see all the way through the trees to the white columned house across the street ?
Once he had ridden upstairs with her and her nurse in the quaint yet powerful little elevator with its brass gate and worn carpet .
No change in Deirdre 's expression as the little car began to rise .
It made him anxious to hear the churning machinery .
He could not imagine the motor except as something blackened and sticky and ancient , coated with dust .
Of course he had questioned the old doctor at the sanitarium .
'I remember when I was your age , ' said the old doctor .
'I was going to cure all of them .
I was going to reason with the paranoiacs , and bring the schizophrenics back to reality , and make the catatonics wake up .
You give her that shot every day , son .
There 's nothing there anymore .
We just do our best to keep her from getting worked up now and then , you know , the agitation . '
Agitation ?
That was the reason for these powerful drugs ?
Even if the shots were stopped tomorrow it would be a month before the effects had fully worn off .
And the levels used were so high they might have killed another patient .
You had to build up to a dosage like that .
How could anyone know the true state of the woman when the medication had gone on for so long ?
If only he could run an electroencephalogram He 'd been on the case about a month when he sent for the records .
It was a routine request .
No one noticed .
He sat at his desk at the sanitarium all afternoon struggling with the scrawl of dozens of other physicians , the vague and contradictory diagnoses - mania , paranoia , complete exhaustion , delusions , psychotic break , depression , attempted suicide .
It went all the way back to the girl 's teens apparently .
Her face was too pale .
She looked her age C thirty-five C and that was rare .
They had married very , very young , and he still remembered the traveling salesman who had come to the door selling vacuum cleaners one day after they had been married three years .
He had looked at the twenty-two-year-old Heidi Halleck and had asked politely , 'Is your mother home , hon ? '
'Not hurting my appetite any , ' he said , and that was certainly true .
Angst or no angst , he had lain waste to the scrambled eggs , and of the bacon there was now no sign .
He drank half his orange juice and gave her a big old Billy Halleck grin .
She tried to smile back and it did n't quite happen .
He imagined her wearing a sign : MY SMILER IS TEMPORARILY OUT OF ORDER .
He reached across the table and took her hand .
'Heidi , it 's all right .
And even if it 's not , it 's all over . '
'I know it is .
I know . '
'Is Linda - ? '
'No .
Not anymore .
She says ... she says her girlfriends are being very supportive . '
For about a week after it had happened , their daughter had had a bad time of it .
She had come home from school either in tears or close to them .
She had stopped eating .
Her complexion had flared up .
Halleck , determined not to overreact , had gone in to see her homeroom teacher , the assistant principal , and Linda 's beloved Miss Nearing , who taught phys ed and cheerleading .
He ascertained ( ah , there was a good lawyerly word ) that it was teasing , mostly as rough and unfunny as most junior-high-school teasing is apt to be , and tasteless to be sure , considering the circumstances , but what could you expect of an age group that thought dead-baby jokes were the height of wit ?
He had gotten Linda to take a walk with him up the street .
Lantern Drive was lined with tasteful set-back-from-the-road homes , homes which began at roughly $ 75,000 and worked up into the $ 200,000 indoor-pool-and-sauna range by the time you got to the country-club end of the street .
Linda had been wearing her old madras shorts , which were now torn along one seam ... and , Halleck observed , her legs had now grown so long and coltish that the leg bands of her yellow cotton panties showed .
He felt a pang of mingled regret and terror .
She was growing up .
You understand it was an accident , do n't you , Linda ?
She nods , not looking at him .
Yes , Daddy .
She came out between two cars without looking either way .
There was no time for me to stop .
Absolutely no time .
Daddy , I do n't want to hear about it .
I know you do n't .
And I do n't want to talk about it .
But you are hearing about it .
At school .
She looks at him fearfully .
Daddy !
You didn't Go to your school ?
Yeah .
I did .
But not until three-thirty yesterday afternoon .
There were no kids there at all , at least that I could see .
No one 's going to know .
She relaxes .
A little .
I heard you 've been getting some pretty rough handling from the other kids .
I 'm sorry about that .
It has n't been so bad , she says , taking his hand .
Her face C the fresh scatter of angry-looking pimples on her forehead C tells a different story .
The pimples say the handling has been rough indeed .
Having a parent arrested is not a situation even Judy Blume covers ( although someday she probably will ) .
I also hear you 've been handling it pretty well , Billy Halleck says .
Not making a big thing out of it .
Because if they ever see they 're getting under your skin ... Yeah , I know , she says glumly .
Miss Nearing said she was especially proud of you , he says .
It 's a small lie .
Miss Nearing had n't said precisely that , but she had certainly spoken well of Linda , and that meant almost as much to Halleck as it did to his daughter .
And it does the job .
Her eyes brighten and she looks at Halleck for the first time .
She did ?
She did , Halleck confirms .
The lie comes easily and convincingly .
Why not ?
He has told a lot of lies just lately .
She squeezes his hand and smiles at him gratefully .
They 'll let it go pretty soon , Lin .
They 'll find some other bone to chew .
Some girl will get pregnant or a teacher will have a nervous breakdown or some boy will get busted for selling pot or cocaine .
And you 'll be off the hook .
Get it ?
She throws her arms around him suddenly and hugs him tight .
He decides she is n't growing up so fast after all , and that not all lies are bad .
I love YOU , Daddy , she says .
I love you too , Lin .
He hugs her back and suddenly someone turns on a big stereo amplifier in the front of his brain and he hears the double-thud again.. the first as the Ninety-Eight 's front bumper strikes the old Gypsy woman with the bright red cloth kerchief over her scraggly hair , the second as the big front wheels pass over her body .
Heidi screams .
And her hand leaves Halleck 's lap .
Halleck hugs his daughter tighter , feeling goose flesh break all over his body .
'More eggs ? '
Heidi asked , breaking into his reverie .
'No .
No , thanks . '
He looked at his clean plate with some guilt : no matter how bad things got , they had never gotten bad enough to cause him to lose either sleep or his appetite .
'Are you sure you 're ...
? '
'Okay ? '
He smiled .
'I 'm okay , you 're okay , Linda 's okay .
As they say on the soap operas , the nightmare is over C can we please get back to our lives ? '
'That 's a lovely idea . '
This time she returned his smile with a real one of her own C she was suddenly under thirty again , and radiant .
'Want the rest of the bacon ?
There 's two slices left . '
'No , ' he said , thinking of the way his pants nipped at his soft waist ( what waist , ha-ha ?
Some people were just wired wrong and they could n't live unless they were making other people suffer .
His Aunt Menyara always said no one could make him feel inferior unless he allowed them to .
Problem was , he allowed it a lot more than he wanted to .
His mom set a chipped blue plate on the side of the rusted-out stove .
`` Sit down , baby , and eat something .
I was reading in a magazine that someone left at the club that kids score much higher on tests and do a lot better in school whenever they have breakfast . ''
She smiled and held the package of bacon up for him to see .
`` And look .
It 's not expired this time . ''
He laughed at something that really was n't funny .
One of the guys who came into his mom 's club was a local grocer who would give them meat sometimes when it expired since all the guy did was throw it out anyway .
`` As long as we eat it quick , it wont make us sick . ''
Another litany he hated .
Picking up the crispy bacon , he glanced around the tiny condo they called home .
It was one of four that had been carved out of an old run-down house .
Made up of three small rooms-the kitchen/living room , his mom 's bedroom , and the bathroom-it was n't much , but it was theirs and his mom was proud of it , so he tried to be proud too .
Most days .
He winced as he looked at his corner where his mom had strung up dark blue blankets to make a room for him on his last birthday .
His clothes were kept in an old laundry basket on the floor , set next to his mattress that was covered with Star Wars sheets he 'd had since he was nine-another present his mom had picked up at a yard sale .
`` One day , Mom , I 'm going to buy us a really nice house . ''
With really nice stuff in it .
She smiled , but her eyes said she did n't believe a word he spoke .
`` I know you will , baby .
Now eat up and get to school .
I do n't want you dropping out like me . ''
She paused as a hurt look flitted across her face .
`` You can see exactly what that gets you . ''
Guilt cut through him .
He was the reason his mom had dropped out of school .
As soon as her parents had learned she was pregnant , they 'd offered her one choice .
Give up the baby or give up her nice home in Kenner , her education , and her family .
For reasons he still did n't understand , she 'd chosen him .
It was something Nick never let himself forget .
But one day he was going to get all that back for her .
She deserved it , and for her , he 'd wear this god-awful shirt .
Even if it got him killed .
... And he 'd smile through the pain of it until Stone and his crew kicked his teeth in .
Trying not to think about the butt-whipping to come , Nick ate his bacon in silence .
Maybe Stone would n't be in school today .
He could get malaria or the plague , or rabies or something .
Yeah , may the smarmy freak get a pox on his privates .
That thought actually made him smile as he shoved the grainy powdered eggs into his mouth and swallowed them .
He forced himself not to shiver at the taste .
But it was all they could afford .
He glanced at the clock on the wall and jerked .
`` Got ta go .
I 'm going to be late . ''
She grabbed him for a bear hug .
Nick grimaced .
`` Stop sexually harassing me , Mom .
I got ta go before I get another tardy . ''
She popped him on the butt cheek before she released him .
`` Sexually harassing you .
Boy , you have no idea . ''
She ruffled his hair as he bent over to pick up his backpack .
Nick put both arms through the straps and hit the door running .
He launched himself from the dilapidated porch and sprinted down the street , past broken-down cars and garbage cans to where the streetcar stopped .
`` Please do n't be gone .
... `` Otherwise he 'd be doomed to another `` Nick ?
What are we going to do with you , you white-trash dirt ? ''
lecture from Mr. Peters .
The old man hated his guts , and the fact that Nick was a scholarship kid at his snotty overprivileged school seriously ticked Peters off .
He 'd like nothing better than to kick him out so that Nick would n't `` corrupt '' the kids from the good families .
Nick 's lip curled as he tried not to think about the way those decent people looked at him like he was nothing .
More than half their dads were regulars at the club where his mom worked , yet they were called decent while he and his mom were considered trash .
The hypocrisy of that did n't sit well with him .
But it was what it was .
He could n't change anyone 's mind but his own .
Nick put his head down and ran as he saw the streetcar stopped at his station .
Oh man____ Nick picked up speed and he broke out into a dead run .
He hit the platform and leapt for the streetcar .
He 'd caught it just in time .
Panting and sweating from the humid autumn New Orleans air , he shrugged his backpack off as he greeted the driver .
`` Morning , Mr .
Clemmons . ''
The elderly African-American man smiled at him .
He was one of Nick 's favorite drivers .
`` Morning , Mr .
Gautier . ''
He always mispronounced Nick 's last name .
He said it `` Go-chay '' instead of the correct `` Go-shay . ''
The difference being `` Go-chay '' traditionally had an `` h '' in it after the `` t '' and , as Nick 's mom so often said , they were too poor for any more letters .
Not to mention , one of his mom 's relatives , Fernando Upton Gautier , had founded the small town in Mississippi that shared his name and both were pronounced `` Go-shay . ''
`` Your mom made you late again ? ''
`` You know it . ''
Nick dug his money out of his pocket and quickly paid before taking a seat .
Winded and sweating , he leaned back and let out a deep breath , grateful he 'd made it in time .
Unfortunately , he was still sweating when he reached school .
The beauty of living in a city where even in October it could hit ninety by eight a.m. Man , he was getting tired of this late heat wave they 'd been suffering .
Suck it up , Nick .
You 're not late today .
It 's all good .
Yeah , let the mocking commence .
He smoothed his hair down , wiped the sweat off his brow , and draped his backpack over his left shoulder .
Holding his head high in spite of the snickers and comments about his shirt and sweaty condition , he walked across the yard and through the doors like he owned them .
It was the best he could do .
`` Ew !
Gross !
He 's dripping wet .
Is he too poor to own a towel ?
Nick digested that word slowly .
`` Which means what ?
You hunt darkness ? ''
`` Yes , Nick .
That 's exactly what I do .
There 's just not enough of it . ''
Now , there was some sarcasm you could cut with a knife .
Nick was n't amused by it .
`` So you going to explain it or not ? ''
`` We 're immortal warriors who sold our souls to the goddess Artemis .
For her , we fight and protect humanity from whatever stalks the night , trying to prey on them .
For the most part , that means we track and slay Daimons . ''
`` Which are ? ''
`` To put it in terms you can relate to , they 're vampires who live on human souls .
Instead of blood , they take your soul into their body , and once it 's there , it starts to wither and die .
We have to kill the Daimon before the soul is completely used up . ''
`` I do n't understand .
Why take souls ? ''
Kyrian shrugged .
`` It 's what nourishes them .
They have to keep a living soul in them or they die . ''
That was harsh .
For them and especially for the person they killed to get it .
`` How do they take souls ? ''
Nick asked .
`` No idea .
I asked Acheron that question once , and he refused to answer .
He 's good at that . ''
`` So did he teach that to you , too ? ''
Kyrian smiled , not the tight-lipped smiles of the past , this was a full-blown one that showed off his fangs .
`` He did , indeed . ''
`` I give you an A-plus , then . ''
Kyrian cocked his head , watching him as if waiting for Nick to run again .
`` Are we good ? ''
Nick considered it .
He probably should be terrified and bolting for the door , but Kyrian had been there with him , fighting zombies and protecting his friends tonight .
He 'd opened his house to Nick 's mom .
He seemed okay ... . You can trust him .
For the first time , Nick knew who that weird deep voice in his head belonged to .
Ambrose-his whacked-out uncle who swore he was here to help him .
Strange , how everyone kept claiming that .
But- '' Nick ? ''
They both jumped at the sound of Nick 's mom in the hallway , calling his name .
Kyrian went to the door and opened it .
`` We 're in here , Mrs .
Gautier . ''
Stepping into the room , she looked around suspiciously , as if she expected to catch them doing something illegal , unethical , or unnatural .
Tiny , petite , and beautiful with bright blue eyes , his mom had always reminded him of an angel , especially when she was n't wearing makeup-something he hated on her .
Her blond hair was rumpled and she was dressed in a black T-shirt that went all the way to her knees .
It looked like Kyrian had loaned it to her to sleep in .
At twenty-eight , she was really young to have a kid his age .
But that had never mattered .
It 'd always been the two of them against a hostile world .
`` Nick ?
Is everything okay ? ''
`` It 's all good , Mom . ''
She gave Kyrian an arch stare that said she did n't believe Nick 's answer .
`` You sure , boo ? ''
`` Absolutely .
Mr. Hunter was just telling me that I have tomorrow off since I worked so late tonight .
Is n't that right , Mr .
Hunter ? ''
There was an amused gleam in Kyrian 's eyes as he realized Nick had manipulated the situation to his advantage .
`` Yes , that 's correct . ''
`` Could n't you have told him that outside ? ''
Kyrian pressed his lips together in an effort not to smile and expose his teeth .
`` Nick came in here to get online and play .
I was just telling him he needed to go on to bed . ''
Oh , the rat ...
Pulling the parental censorship card ?
That was just rude .
Unconscionable .
If Nick were n't the victim , he 'd applaud the quick thinking .
But the last thing he needed was for his mom to have yet another reason to ground him .
She leveled an angry stare at him .
`` Nicky ... '' Nick held his arm up in surrender .
`` Mom- '' '' Do n't you 'Mom ' me , boy .
I ca n't believe you 'd do this when you know better .
Get your butt in bed .
Right now .
March ! ''
Rising from his chair , Nick growled low in his throat and cast a warning snarl at Kyrian .
He 'd get him ...
Eventually .
Kyrian let out an evil closed-lipped laugh .
`` I 'll show you to your room . ''
His mom was having none of that as she blocked the doorway .
`` He can sleep in my room .
With me . ''
Kyrian released a tired sigh .
`` I wondered where Nick got his suspicious nature from .
You 've taught him well . ''
His mom smoothed a stray piece of blond hair back from her face and tucked it in behind her left ear .
`` Yeah , well , I 've seen the ugly side of people too many times .
No offense to you , Mr .
Hunter . ''
`` I assure you , I 've seen an even uglier side of them than you have .
Many times , myself .
Call me Kyrian , please . ''
That seemed to embarrass her .
Contrary to what you think , we 're all mice lost in a maze .
No one really knows what they 're doing .
You go left for whatever reason , but you do n't know if it 's the right direction or not until you 're either electrocuted or you get the cheese .
By the time you find out which it is , it 's too late to turn back .
You 're either dead or you 're fed .
There 's no third option . ''
`` I have to say then , that I prefer fed over dead . ''
Ambrose laughed bitterly .
`` So do I .
Some days , anyway . ''
He glanced skyward as if looking for divine guidance of some kind .
`` I seriously hope I 'm not about to make another mistake . ''
He rubbed his hand against his forehead as if he had a pain there , then leveled a piercing stare at Nick .
`` Fine .
I 'll tell you the truth .
All of it .
For better or worse .
Let 's put the cards on the table and see how we screw things up this time , shall we ? ''
Nick was n't sure if that was a good thing or not .
But either way , he wanted to know exactly what was going on and what he was up against .
Ambrose faced him .
`` This is n't my first rodeo , but it is most definitely the last .
You , Nick , are the only hope I have of getting it right .
I 've tried three times before this and each one was worse on the outcome than the last .
When I started tampering with our lives , I had more humanity in me .
I 've all but lost it now .
My last attempt burned out something inside me , and I 'll be honest , it scares me .
And I do n't scare .
Ever .
Not after everything I 've been through .
But the degree to which I do n't care anymore-about anything-is a frightful thing .
At times , I want it all to end .
Because when it does , my pain will stop and I 'll have some degree of peace .
Finally .
It 'll seriously suck for everyone else .
But like I said , I 'm to the point where I really do n't care anymore .
I 'm holding on to my humanity by the thinnest thread imaginable , and any day now , I expect it to break .
God help us all when it does . ''
A chill went down Nick 's spine .
He did n't want the bleak , lonely future Ambrose described .
Most of all , he did n't want to become Ambrose .
While he was jaded and suspicious by nature , there was still a part of him that honestly believed people were good and decent .
Most of them , anyway .
He glared at Ambrose as he absorbed those words .
`` Then why should I listen to anything you tell me ?
For all I know , you 're setting me up so that you can have your peace and end the world ... . And what do you mean you 've tried three times ?
How ? ''
`` I forgot how ADD I once was . ''
Ambrose shook his head .
`` No wonder Kyrian was so sharp with me so many times . ''
He took a deep breath before he answered Nick 's question .
`` I 've mentored three different Nicks before you .
Four if you count my original childhood . ''
`` Ooooriginal ? ''
He dragged the word out as that thought played through his mind .
Did that mean ... ?
Ambrose let out another bitter laugh .
`` My life was slightly different from yours .
Not much .
Little things .
But it 's those little things that can make a huge difference in what happens to us later . ''
Yep , it was exactly what he 'd suspected .
And that truthfully terrified him .
Never underestimate a man 's ability to screw up the best laid plans-that was one of his friend 's favorite sayings .
`` Such as ? ''
Nick asked .
`` The first attempt I made at correcting the past , I had Nick tell our mother about the Dark-Hunter world as soon as he was dragged into it . ''
He winced as if the memory was unbearable .
`` I really thought that was the perfect solution .
I did .
All these years , I kept telling myself that if only she 'd known about the paranormal , she 'd have been wary of it and not- '' He broke off to curse under his breath .
Then he turned back to Nick .
`` But she could n't handle it or believe it ...
It was a total disaster .
Because of our father , she thought it was a mental defect-schizophrenia to be precise .
That first Nick ended up medicated in an asylum with no one to protect him from our enemies .
I 'm still scarred by what was done to him .
Worse , without us living at home , Mom never stopped working at her club and she was shot dead during a robbery . ''
Nick wanted to vomit at the mere thought .
`` Are you serious ? ''
Ambrose nodded .
`` There 's nothing like watching multiple outcomes play out before your eyes and then live in your memory .
I now understand why Savitar sits on his island , away from everything . ''
Who ?
Nick had never heard of such a person .
`` Savitar ? ''
`` A being you 'll meet one day .
For now , it 's not important .
Just remember , you ca n't talk to your mother about any of this .
She does n't want to know , and she 'll never accept the fact that she had the son of a demon . ''
Who could blame her for that ?
He personally could n't think of any woman who would welcome that news .
Hey , hon , guess what ?
Your son that you nurtured in your body for nine months and then sacrificed your life and dignity to raise is destined to end the world .
Are n't you proud ?
Yeah , that just did n't work .
All right then , he would n't tell his mother about himself , his father or his Dark-Hunter boss Kyrian .
Truthfully , he 'd been tempted to let her know why Kyrian was different , why he worked so late at night and was n't around in the daytime .
But every time he 'd thought about it , his gut had kept him silent .
Score one for the gut .
Wincing , Caleb held her close to his heart and stroked her bloody hair .
`` No , Tabby .
I failed myself . ''
He glanced to the other two women as tears filled his demonic eyes .
`` Most of all , I failed Nick . ''
Those words tore through Nick like a shredder .
How dare his servant pity him .
He was not some paltry human to be patronized as if he were nothing .
He was the Malachai .
Lord and ruler of all the known universes !
His vision darkening with the weight of his fury , he manifested himself inside the cathedral , right beside Malphas .
His gold armor gleaming in the dim light , Nick lifted his black wings as he towered over his servant .
`` You never did learn the proper tone or stance . ''
He grabbed Malphas by his throat and lifted him away from Tabitha 's body .
`` Go ahead , '' Caleb dared him .
`` Kill me .
My only wish is that you 'd done it centuries ago before I was forced to serve what you 've become . ''
Fine then ... '' I 'm finished with you anyway , '' Nick growled in his face .
He snapped Malphas 's neck , then threw him against the wall so hard that his body went through the stone and landed in the alley outside .
Snarling in fury , Nick turned to go after those who 'd fled , but as he took a step , his gaze went to Tabitha 's arm .
Blood stained her skin , yet that was n't what had grabbed his attention .
Rather it was the Latin words tattooed on her forearm .
Fabra est sui quaeque fati .
She creates her own destiny .
For the first time in years , Nick felt something other than fury and hatred .
It 'd been so long since he last had this emotion that it took him a full minute to name it .
Remorse .
It ripped through him over what he 'd done to the people he 'd once called family .
To the very people he 'd loved and protected .
Kyrian Hunter had saved him and his mother , and how had he repaid him ?
He 'd taken everything Kyrian had loved and destroyed it , and then he 'd taken his life .
How did I become this monster ?
There was no one left to blame for his transformation .
After all his promises that he would n't , that nothing could make him , he had given in .
Nick looked down at his blood-soaked armor and clawed hands that had long ago ceased being human .
He moved his gaze around the sacred room where he had marked all the major milestones of his human life , and saw what remained of it .
Only twisted , burning wreckage surrounded him .
Inside and out .
When had he lost himself so fully ?
Throwing his head back , Nick roared in agony ... . * * * Ambrose sat upright in bed , shaking from the premonition that had crept into his sleep .
Again .
Tears filled his eyes as he saw in his mind the image of Tabitha and Amanda dead on the same floor where he had attended countless Masses with his mother .
Where he 'd once walked as an altar boy , and had sworn repeatedly that he would never become the monster his father was .
Instead , he 'd morphed into something much worse .
How could I ever do such a thing ?
How could he ever allow himself to deteriorate into such a beast ?
Grinding his teeth , he wanted to purge the images out of his head .
But they were there .
Aching .
Taunting .
Real .
It was the future he saw , and he could n't let it happen .
No matter what it took , he had to save them all .
He had to .
`` Nicholas ? ''
He flinched as Artemis sat up beside him and touched his bare shoulder .
Worry furrowed her beautiful brow as her red hair fell around her slender shoulders in perfect curls .
`` You 're trembling . ''
Ambrose shook his head in denial .
`` I never tremble .
Nothing scares me . ''
She did n't believe it .
He saw the truth in her green eyes as she brushed his damp hair back from his face .
`` Is it your dream again ? ''
`` It 's not a dream , Artie .
It 's a vision .
Acheron was right .
We ca n't change our fate .
Only how we bring it about . ''
`` Is that really what you believe ? ''
Ambrose raked his hand through his sweat-soaked hair .
`` No .
I ca n't ... '' He locked gazes with her , then spoke more forcefully .
`` I wo n't . ''
In that moment , he felt his powers rising , trying to drown out his humanity and turn him into the creature he was born to be .
But he was n't lost .
Not yet .
`` No one controls me , '' he growled in his demon 's voice , pushing that darkness into submission .
`` Ever .
I will not become the Malachai ! ''
He got out of bed and quickly dressed .
`` Where are you going ? ''
He hesitated , then answered with more conviction than he 'd ever had before .
`` To alter my past so that I can change my future . ''
CHAPTER 1 When most guys said that their girlfriend was going to kill them , it was a gross exaggeration or extreme paranoia .
In the case of Nicholas Gautier it was a harsh , brutal fact .
One so solid , he could chisel a check on it .
Especially since the warning that his girl was an assassin sent to murder him had come from Death himself .
The one creature who would know a killer best ... As the old saying went , you could n't argue with Death .
Stunned and numb from that unexpected land mine , Nick turned his attention to Nekoda Kennedy as she sat down in their chemistry class beside Nick 's best friend , Caleb Malphas .
For once her tight cream sweater did n't turn his mind to mush .
Nor did the bright smile on her lips .
Lips that held his attention and momentarily distracted his thoughts ... Yeah , okay , she really was seriously hot , from the top of her soft , shiny brown hair to the tips of her pink leather boots .
And do n't get him started on her green , green eyes that held an indelible fire so bright , it was scorching .
But a man had to have some standards , and not being murdered by his girl was definitely one of them .
Teenage hormones be defied .
So then why did it feel like someone had kicked his tenders when her smile faded and sadness replaced the joy on her face ?
Why did it hurt him to see the uncertainty he caused her ?
I am so messed up ... . That was the only reasonable explanation .
No normal , sane person would care whether or not he hurt the feelings of a woman sent to kill him .
Mark 's my dad . ''
Nick started laughing and laughing .
He could n't stop .
Yeah , this was all insane .
He must have been hit in the head a lot harder than he thought .
`` Okay , joke 's over , everyone .
Ha .
Ha .
You got me . ''
`` What joke ? ''
Ash , Caleb , and Stone asked while the women looked at him as if he was the one who was nuts .
Unable to deal with it anymore , Nick rose to his feet and curled his lip .
`` You know , for a joke to work it actually needs to be funny , guys ... and this is not even a little . ''
Angry at them , he stormed off to the bathroom to splash water on his face and wake up .
Something had to get him out of this nightmare and back home .
But the moment Nick looked into the bathroom mirror , he froze in absolute horror .
Not only was he in an ugly blue tuxedo that he 'd never wear , his hair was blond , and his eyes were an average gray color .
Worse ?
He was a lot closer to the sink than he 'd been in a really long time .
I 'm short ?
Ah gah !
Anything but that !
His heart pounding , he checked his legs to make sure they were intact .
They were .
And yet he was only five foot eight .
If that much .
No ...
I 'm six-four .
Had been since his growth spurt last summer .
Panic rose high as he closed his eyes and tried to summon his powers .
That only made him panic more as harsh reality cracked him in the stones .
No , no , no , non !
his mind shouted .
It could n't be .
But it was .
All of his powers were gone .
Every last one of them .
He had nothing .
Not even a glimmer of the scrying or clairvoyance or anything .
I 'm totally without and locked in Hades .
Horrified , Nick gaped at the unfamiliar face he saw in the mirror that was n't his .
He pinched himself and shook his head .
It was him .
Somehow he 'd morphed into a short blond dude .
Unable to accept it , he tried everything he could to wake up .
But nothing worked .
He continued to exist here in this freakworld .
It 's not a dream .
Somehow this was real .
He was real , and he was here , wherever here was .
Madaug walked in and sneered at him .
No longer skinny and nerdy , he was the six feet four Nick should have been , and ripped .
`` What you looking at , Burdette ?
Cruising for a date ? ''
`` Burdette ? ''
Nick repeated , looking around for Bubba .
Madaug shoved him .
`` Nick Burdette ?
Ca n't you even recognize your own name ? ''
He rolled his eyes .
`` Dog , boy , how dumb are you ? ''
He went over to a urinal .
Stunned , confused , and terrified , Nick stumbled out to the prom that was filled with people he knew but did n't recognize .
Reaching for something , anything to prove this was n't happening , that he was being punk 'd , he pulled his wallet out and checked his license .
It was the `` new '' blond him in the photo , but what hit him like a kick in the crotch was the name .
Nicholas Michael Burdette instead of Nicholas Ambrosius Gautier .
`` What the Hades has happened ? ''
And more importantly ... how could he undo it when he no longer had any power and his preternatural allies were now all woefully normal ?
CHAPTER 1 '' Nick ?
Boo ?
Get up .
You 're going to be late for school . ''
Groaning in fear of what he might find this time , Nick opened his eyes to see the navy blue curtains his mom had bought him last year when they moved into their condo on Bourbon Street .
Relief flooded him .
It was just a nightmare , after all .
Thank you , God !
That was his thought until he realized that the window was n't the same .
Instead of being a large single window , it was two windows with a divider between them .
Ah , crap .
Not again .
Have n't I suffered enough indignities and horrors ?
Really ?
His heart hammering , Nick slowly swept his gaze around a room he did n't recognize .
At all .
His stomach tightened to the point he feared he 'd be ill .
`` Nick ? ''
His mom knocked lightly before she pushed open the door to smile at him .
`` So you are up , sleepyhead .
Hurry now , or else you 'll get another tardy . ''
Even more unsettled than before , Nick gaped at the sight of her in an expensive dark blue business suit with her blond hair cut short to frame her beautiful face .
That definitely was n't her waitress uniform .
`` Mom ? ''
Scowling , she moved to stand by the bed and placed her hand to his forehead .
`` Are you all right ?
You look pale . ''
Stunned , he could n't speak as he stared at a stranger in his mother 's body .
`` Cherise ?
It 's London calling .
They need to speak to you .
Said it ca n't wait . ''
Do you remember the way ?
You can get to it around the side of the house .
Just follow the path . '
If you 'd asked me an hour before , I would have said no , I did not remember the way .
I do not even think I would have remembered Lettie Hempstock 's name .
But standing in that hallway , it was all coming back to me .
Memories were waiting at the edges of things , beckoning to me .
Had you told me that I was seven again , I might have half believed you , for a moment .
'Thank you . '
I walked into the farmyard .
I went past the chicken coop , past the old barn and along the edge of the field , remembering where I was , and what was coming next , and exulting in the knowledge .
Hazels lined the side of the meadow .
I picked a handful of the green nuts , put them in my pocket .
The pond is next , I thought .
I just have to go around this shed , and I 'll see it .
I saw it and felt oddly proud of myself , as if that one act of memory had blown away some of the cobwebs of the day .
The pond was smaller than I remembered .
There was a little wooden shed on the far side , and , by the path , an ancient , heavy wood-and-metal bench .
The peeling wooden slats had been painted green a few years ago .
I sat on the bench , and stared at the reflection of the sky in the water , at the scum of duckweed at the edges , and the half-dozen lily pads .
Every now and again I tossed a hazelnut into the middle of the pond , the pond that Lettie Hempstock had called ...
It was n't the sea , was it ?
She would be older than I am now , Lettie Hempstock .
She was only a handful of years older than I was back then , for all her funny talk .
She was eleven .
I was ... what was I ?
It was after the bad birthday party .
I knew that .
So I would have been seven .
I wondered if we had ever fallen in the water .
Had I pushed her into the duckpond , that strange girl who lived in the farm at the very bottom of the lane ?
I remembered her being in the water .
Perhaps she had pushed me in too .
Where did she go ?
America ?
No , Australia .
That was it .
Somewhere a long way away .
And it was n't the sea .
It was the ocean .
Lettie Hempstock 's ocean .
I remembered that , and , remembering that , I remembered everything .
Chapter 1 < br/ > I did not want to open his box .
I wanted to go off on my own .
I wanted to cry for my kitten , but I could not do that if anyone else was there and watching me .
I wanted to mourn .
I wanted to bury my friend at the bottom of the garden , past the green-grass fairy ring , into the rhododendron bush cave , back past the heap of grass cuttings , where nobody ever went but me .
The box moved .
'Bought it for you , ' said the man .
'Always pay my debts . '
I reached out , lifted the top flap of the box , wondering if this was a joke , if my kitten would be in there .
Instead a ginger face stared up at me truculently .
The opal miner took the cat out of the box .
He was a huge , ginger-striped tomcat , missing half an ear .
He glared at me angrily .
This cat had not liked being put in a box .
He was not used to boxes .
I reached out to stroke his head , feeling unfaithful to the memory of my kitten , but he pulled back , so I could not touch him , and he hissed at me then stalked off to a far corner of the room , where he sat and looked and hated .
'There you go .
Cat for a cat , ' said the opal miner , and he ruffled my hair with his leathery hand .
Then he went out into the hall , leaving me in the kitchen with the cat that was not my kitten .
The man put his head back through the door .
'It 's called Monster , ' he said .
It felt like a bad joke .
I propped open the kitchen door , so the cat could get out .
Then I went up to my bedroom , and lay on my bed and cried for dead Fluffy .
When my parents got home that evening , I do not think my kitten was even mentioned .
Monster lived with us for a week or more .
I put cat food in the bowl for him in the morning and again at night as I had for my kitten .
He would sit by the back door until I , or someone else , let him out .
We saw him in the garden , slipping from bush to bush , or in trees , or in the undergrowth .
We could trace his movements by the dead blue tits and thrushes we would find in the garden , but we saw him rarely .
I missed Fluffy .
I knew you could not simply replace something alive , but I dared not grumble to my parents about it .
They would have been baffled at my upset : after all , if my kitten had been killed , it had also been replaced .
The damage had been made up .
It all came back , and even as it came back I knew it would not be for long : all the things I remembered , sitting on the green bench beside the little pond that Lettie Hempstock had once convinced me was an ocean .
< br/ > 'That 's why he came down here , ' she told me .
'The end of the road .
Nobody 's going to find him and stop him around here , three o ' clock in the morning .
And the mud there is wet and easy to mould . '
'Do you think he killed himself ? '
'Yes .
Do you like milk ?
Gran 's milking Bessie now . '
I said , 'You mean , real milk from a cow ? '
and then felt foolish , but she nodded , reassuringly .
I thought about this .
I 'd never had milk that did n't come from a bottle .
'I think I 'd like that . '
We stopped at a small barn where an old woman , much older than my parents , with long grey hair , like cobwebs , and a thin face , was standing beside a cow .
Long black tubes were attached to each of the cow 's teats .
'We used to milk them by hand , ' she told me .
'But this is easier . '
She showed me how the milk went from the cow down the black tubes and into the machine , through a cooler and into huge metal churns .
The churns were left on a heavy wooden platform outside the barn , where they would be collected each day by a lorry .
The old lady gave me a cup of creamy milk from Bessie the cow , the fresh milk before it had gone through the cooler .
Nothing I had drunk had ever tasted like that before : rich and warm and perfectly happy in my mouth .
I remembered that milk after I had forgotten everything else .
'There 's more of them up the lane , ' said the old woman , suddenly .
A fatal virus had only recently broken out with stunning fury in an African country , then died away , leaving all thinking individuals with a renewed interest in the age-old obsession : that the end of the world might be at hand .
Apparently there were more than three kinds of this virus , and numerous others equally as deadly lurking in the rain forests of the world .
A hundred other surreal stories made up each day 's news , and each day 's inevitable civilized conversation .
So I ran from this , as much as anything else .
I ran for the solitude , the whiteness of snow , the brutal indifference of towering trees and tiny winter stars .
It was my own jeep which had brought me up through `` the leather stocking woods , '' as it is sometimes still called , in honor of James Fenimore Cooper , to barricade myself for the winter .
There was a phone in the jeep by which one could , with perseverance if possible , reach the outside world .
I was for tearing it out , but the truth is I 'm not very handy and I could n't get the thing loose without damaging my car .
So you see , I am not a fool , just a scholar .
I had a plan .
I was prepared for the heavy snow to come , and the winds to whistle in the single metal chimney above the round central hearth .
The smell of my books , the oak fire , the snow itself whirling down at times in tiny specks into the flames , these things I love and need now and then .
And many a winter before this house had given me exactly what I asked of it .
The night began like any other .
The fever took me completely by surprise , and I remember building up the fire in the round pit of a fireplace very high because I did not want to have to tend it .
When I drank all the water nearest the bed , I do n't know .
I could n't have been fully conscious then .
I know that I went to the door , that I myself unbolted it , and then could not get it closed ; this much I do recall .
I must have been trying to reach the jeep .
Bolting the door was simply impossible .
I lay for a long time in the snow itself before I crawled back inside , and away from the mouth of the winter , or so it seemed .
I remember these things because I remember knowing then that I was very much in danger .
The long journey back to the bed , the long journey back to the warmth of the fire , utterly exhausted me .
Beneath the heap of wool blankets and quilts , I hid from the whirlwind that entered my house .
And I knew that if I did n't clear my head , if I did n't recover somehow , the winter would just come inside soon and put to sleep forever the fire , and take me too .
Lying on my back , the quilts up to my chin , I sweated and shivered .
I watched the flakes of snow fly beneath the sloping beams of the roof .
I watched the raging pyramid of logs as it blazed .
I smelled the burnt pot when the soup boiled dry .
I saw the snow covering my desk .
I made a plan to rise , then fell asleep .
I dreamed those fretful stupid dreams that fever makes , then woke with a start , sat up , fell back , dreamed again .
The candles were gone out , but the fire still burned , and snow now filled the room , blanketing my desk , my chair , perhaps the bed itself .
I licked snow from my lips once , that I do recall , and it tasted good , and now and then I licked the melted snow I could gather with my hand .
My thirst was hellish .
Better to dream than to feel it .
It must have been midnight when Azriel came .
Did he choose his hour with a sense of drama ?
Quite to the contrary .
A long way off , walking through snow and wind , he had seen the fire high on the mountain above , sparks flying from the chimney and a light that blinkered through the open door .
He had hurried towards these beacons .
Mine was the only house on the land and he knew it .
He had learnt that from the casual tactful remarks of those who had told him officially and gently that I could not be reached in the months to come , that I had gone into hiding .
I saw him the very moment he stood in the door .
I saw the sheen of his mass of black curling hair and fire in both his eyes .
I saw the strength and swiftness with which he closed and locked the door and came directly towards me .
I believe I said , `` I 'm going to die . ''
`` No , you wo n't , Jonathan , '' he answered .
He brought the bottle of water at once and lifted my head .
I drank and I drank and my fever drank , and I blessed him .
`` It 's only kindness , Jonathan , '' he said with simplicity .
I dozed as he built up the fire again , wiped away the snow , and I have a very distinct and wondrous memory of him gathering my papers from everywhere , with great care , and kneeling by the fire to lay them out so that they might dry and some of the writing might be saved after all .
`` This is your work , your precious work , '' he said to me when he saw that I was watching him .
He had taken off the big double-mantled coat .
He was in shirt sleeves which meant we were safe .
I smelled the soup cooking again , the bubbling chicken broth .
He brought the soup to me in an earthen bowl-the sort of rustic things I chose for this place-and he said drink the soup , and I did .
Indeed , it was by water and broth that he brought me slowly back .
Never once did I have the presence of mind to mention the few medications in the white box of first-aid supplies .
He bathed my face with cold water .
He bathed all of me slowly and patiently , turning me gently , and rolling under me the new fresh clean sheets .
`` The broth , '' he said , `` the broth , no , you must . ''
And the water .
The water he gave me perpetually .
Was there enough for him , he had asked .
I had almost laughed .
`` Of course , my friend , dear God , take anything you want . ''
And he drank the water down in greedy gulps , saying it was all he needed now , that once again the Stairway to Heaven had disappeared and left him stranded .
`` My name is Azriel , '' he said , sitting by the bed .
`` They called me die Servant of the Bones , '' he said , `` but I became a rebel ghost , a bitter and impudent genii . ''
He unfurled the magazine for me to see .
My head was clear .
I sat up , propped by the divine luxury of clean pillows .
He looked as unlike a ghost as a man can look , muscular , brimming with life , the dark hair on the backs of his hands and on his arms making him appear all the more strong and vital .
Gregory Belkin 's face stared forward from the famous Time magazine frame .
Gregory Belkin - Esther 's father - founder of the Temple of the Mind .
The man who would have brought harm to millions .
`` I killed that man , '' he said .
I turned to look at him , and then it was that I first saw the miracle .
He wanted me to see it .
He did it for me .
He had grown smaller in size , though only slightly ; his mane of tangled black curls was gone ; he had the trimmed hair of a modern businessman ; even his large loose shirt was changed for the supremely acceptable and impeccably tailored black suit , and he had become ... before my very eyes ... the figure of Gregory Belkin .
`` Yes , '' he said .
`` It was the way I looked on the day I made my choice , to forfeit my powers forever ; to take on real flesh and real suffering .
I looked just like Gregory when I shot him . ''
Before I could answer , he began to change again , the head to grow larger , the features to become broader , forehead stronger and more distinctive , the cherub mouth of his own to replace the thin line of Belkin 's .
His fierce eyes grew large beneath the thick eyebrows that tended to dip as he smiled , making the smile and immensity of the eyes seem secretive and seductive .
It was not a happy smile .
It had no humor or sweetness in it .
`` I thought I would look this way forever , '' he said , holding up the magazine for me to see .
`` I thought I would die in that form . ''
He sighed .
`` The Temple of the Mind lies in ruins .
The people will not die .
The women and children will not fall on the road as they breathe the evil gas .
But I did n't die .
I am Azriel again . ''
I took his hand .
`` You 're a living breathing man , '' I said .
`` I do n't know how you made yourself look like Gregory Belkin . ''
He saw New York as it might have appeared in a science-fiction movie , dead and silent and filled with overturned columns and broken pediments and shattered glass .
He saw himself sitting on a broken stone stairway , making a doll from sticks and tying it together with bits of cloth which he took quietly and respectfully from a dead woman 's silk dress .
But who would have imagined that such things would have caught his fancy ?
That wandering a century ago through a wintry street in Paris , he would turn and gaze into a shop window , into the glass eyes of his Bru , and fall passionately in love ?
Of course , his breed had always been known for its capacity to play , to cherish , to enjoy .
Perhaps it was not at all surprising .
Nevertheless , he did study his own breed , making and recording meticulous notes on himself .
And he was not good at predicting the future , or so he felt .
A low hum came to his ears .
He knew it was the coils beneath the marble floor , gently heating the room around him .
He fancied he could feel the heat , coming up through his shoes .
It was never chilly or smotheringly hot in his tower .
The coils took care of him .
If only such comfort could belong to the entire world outside .
If only all could know abundant food , warmth .
His company sent millions in aid to those who lived in deserts and jungles across the seas , but he was never really sure who received what , who benefited .
In the first days of motion pictures , and later television , he had thought war would end .
Hunger would end .
People could not bear to see it on the screen before them .
How foolish a thought .
There seemed to be more war and more hunger now than ever .
On every continent , tribe fought tribe .
Millions starved .
So much to be done .
Why make such careful choices ?
Why not do everything ?
The snow had begun again , with flakes so tiny he could barely see them .
They appeared to melt when they hit the dark streets below .
But those streets were some sixty floors down .
He could n't be certain .
Half-melted snow was piled in the gutters and on the nearby roofs .
In a little while , things would be freshly white again , perhaps , and in this sealed and warm room , one could imagine the entire city dead and ruined , as if by pestilence which did not crumble buildings but killed the warm-blooded beings which lived within them , like termites in wooden walls .
The sky was black .
That was the one thing he did not like about snow .
You lost the sky when you had it .
And he did so love the skies over New York City , the full panoramic skies which the people in the streets never really saw .
`` Towers , build them towers , '' he said .
`` Make a big museum high up in the sky with terraces around it .
Bring them up in glass elevators , heavenward to see ... '' Towers for pleasure among all these towers that men had built for commerce and gain .
A thought took him suddenly , an old thought , really , that often came to him and prodded him to meditate and perhaps even to surmise .
The first writings in all the world had been commercial lists of goods bought and sold .
This was what was in the cuneiform tablets found at Jericho , inventories ... .
The same had been true at Mycenea .
No one had thought it important then to write down his or her ideas or thoughts .
Buildings had been wholly different .
The grandest were houses of worship-temples or great mud-brick ziggurats , faced in limestone , which men had climbed to sacrifice to the gods .
The circle of sarsens on the Salisbury Plain .
Now , seven thousand years later , the greatest buildings were commercial buildings .
They were inscribed with the names of banks or great corporations , or immense private companies such as his own .
From his window he could see these names burning in bright , coarse block letters , through the snowy sky , through the dark that was n't really dark .
As for temples and places of worship , they were relics or almost nought .
Somewhere down there he could pick out the steeples of St. Patrick 's if he tried .
But it was a shrine now to the past more than a vibrant center of communal religious spirit , and it looked quaint , reaching to the skies amid the tall , indifferent glass buildings around it .
It was majestic only from the streets .
The scribes of Jericho would have understood this shift , he thought .
On the other hand , perhaps they would not .
He barely understood it himself , yet the implications seemed mammoth and more wonderful than human beings knew .
This commerce , this endless multiplicity of beautiful and useful things , could save the world , ultimately , if only ...
Planned obsolesence , mass destruction of last year 's goods , the rush to antiquate or render irrelevent others ' designs , it was the result of a tragic lack of vision .
Only the most limited implications of the marketplace theory were to blame for it .
The real revolution came not in the cycle of make and destroy , but in a great inventive and endless expansion .
Old dichotomies had to fall .
In his darling Bru , and her factory-assembled parts , in the pocket calculators carried by millions on the streets , in the light beautiful stroke of rolling-ball pens , in five-dollar Bibles , and in toys , beautiful toys sold on drugstore shelves for pennies-there lay salvation .
It seemed he could get his mind around it , he could penetrate it , make tight , easily explainable theories , if only- '' Mr .
Ash . ''
It was a soft voice that interrupted him .
Nothing more was required .
He 'd trained them all .
Do n't make a sound with the door .
Speak quietly .
I 'll hear you .
And this voice came from Remmick , who was gentle by nature , an Englishman ( with a little Celtic blood , though Remmick did n't know it ) , a manservant who had been indispensable in this last decade , though the time would soon come when , for security 's sake , Remmick must be sent away .
`` Mr. Ash , the young woman 's here . ''
`` Thank you , Remmick , '' he said in a voice that was even softer than that of his servant .
In the dark window glass , if he let himself , he could see Remmick 's reflection-a comely man , with small , very brilliant blue eyes .
They were too close together , these eyes .
But the face was not unattractive , and it wore always a look of such quiet and nondramatic devotion that he had grown to love it , to love Remmick himself .
There were lots of dolls in the world with eyes too close together-in particular , the French dolls made years ago by Jumeau , and Schmitt and Sons , and Huret , and Petit and Demontier-with moon faces , and glittering glass eyes crowding their little porcelain noses , with mouths so tiny they seemed at first glance to be tiny buds , or bee stings .
Everybody loved these dolls .
The bee-sting queens .
When you loved dolls and studied them , you started to love all kinds of people too , because you saw the virtue in their expressions , how carefully they had been sculpted , the parts contrived to create the triumph of this or that remarkable face .
Sometimes he walked through Manhattan , deliberately seeing every face as made , no nose , no ear , no wrinkle accidental .
`` She 's having some tea , sir .
She was terribly cold when she arrived . ''
`` We did n't send a car for her , Remmick ? ''
`` Yes , sir , but she 's cold nevertheless .
It 's very cold outside , sir . ''
`` But it 's warm in the museum , surely .
You took her there , did n't you ? ''
`` Sir , she came up directly .
She is so excited , you understand . ''
He turned , throwing one bright gleam of a smile ( or so he hoped it was ) on Remmick and then waving him away with the smallest gesture that the man could see .
He walked to the doors of the adjoining office , across the floor of Carrara marble , and looked beyond that room , to yet another , also paved , as were all his rooms , in shining marble , where the young woman sat alone at the desk .
He could see her profile .
He could see that she was anxious .
He could see that she wanted the tea , but then she did n't .
She did n't know what to do with her hands .
`` Sir , your hair .
Will you allow me ? ''
I tried to accept what seemed my fate .
But if you do n't believe in fate , well , that is not easy .
On my most recent visit , I 'd been talking to God in the Serra Chapel , and telling Him how much I hated Him that He did n't exist .
I 'd told Him how vicious it was , the illusion that He existed , how unfair it was to do that to mortal men , and especially to children , and how I detested Him for it .
I know , I know , this does n't make sense .
I did a lot of things that did n't make sense .
Being an assassin and nothing else did n't make sense .
And that was probably why I was circling these same places more and more often , free of my many disguises .
I knew I read history books all the time as though I believed a God had acted in history more than once to save us from ourselves , but I did n't believe this at all , and my mind was full of random facts about many an age and many a famous personage .
Why would a killer do that ?
One ca n't be a killer every moment of one 's life .
Some humanity is going to show itself now and then , some hunger for normality , no matter what you do .
And so I had my history books , and the visits to these few places that took me to the times of which I read with such numb enthusiasm , filling my mind with narrative so that it would n't be empty and turn in on itself .
And I had to shake my fist at God for the meaninglessness of it all .
And to me , it felt good .
He did n't really exist , but I could have Him that way , in anger , and I 'd liked those moments of conversation with the illusions that had once meant so much , and now only inspired rage .
Maybe when you 're brought up Catholic , you hold to rituals all your life .
You live in a theater of the mind because you ca n't get out of it .
You 're gripped all your life by a span of two thousand years because you grew up being conscious of belonging to that span .
Most Americans think the world was created the day they were born , but Catholics take it back to Bethlehem and beyond , and so do Jews , even the most secular of them , remembering the Exodus , and the promises to Abraham before that .
Never ever did I look at the nighttime stars or the sands of a beach without thinking of God 's promises to Abraham about his progeny , and no matter what else I did or did n't believe , Abraham was the father of the tribe to which I still belonged through no fault or virtue of my own .
I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven , and as the sand which is upon the sea shore .
So that 's how we go on acting dramas in our theater of the mind even when we do n't believe anymore in the audience or the director or the play .
I 'd laughed thinking about that , as I 'd meditated in the Serra Chapel , laughed out loud like a crazy man as I knelt there , murmuring in the sweet and delicious gloom and shaking my head .
What had maddened me on that last visit was that it was just past ten years to the day that I 'd been working for The Right Man .
The Right Man had remembered the anniversary , talking about anniversaries for the first time ever and presenting me with a huge monetary gift that had already been wired to the bank account in Switzerland through which I most often received my money .
He 'd said to me over the phone the evening before , `` If I knew anything about you , Lucky , I 'd give you something more than cold cash .
All I know is you like to play the lute , and when you were a kid you played it all the time .
They told me that , about your playing .
If you had n't loved the lute so much , maybe we never would have met .
Realize how long it 's been since I 've seen you ?
And I always hope you 're going to drop in , and bring your precious lute with you .
When you do that , I 'll get you to play for me , Lucky .
Hell , Lucky , I do n't even know where you really live . ''
Now that was something he brought up all the time , that he did n't know where I lived , because I think he feared , in his heart of hearts , that I did n't trust him , that my work had slowly eroded the love for him which I felt .
But I did trust him .
And I did love him .
I did n't love anyone in the world but him .
I just did n't want anyone to know where I lived .
No place I lived was home , and I changed where I lived often .
Nothing traveled with me from home to home , except my lute , and all my books .
And of course my few clothes .
In this age of cell phones and the Internet , it was so easy to be untraceable .
And so easy to be reached by an intimate voice in a perfect teletronic silence .
`` Look , you can reach me anytime , day or night , '' I 'd reminded him .
`` Does n't matter where I live .
Does n't matter to me , so why should it matter to you ?
And someday , maybe I 'll send you a recording of me playing the lute .
You 'll be surprised .
I 'm still good at it . ''
He 'd chuckled .
Okay with him , as long as I always answered the phone .
`` Have I ever let you down ? ''
I 'd asked .
`` No , and I 'll never let you down either , '' he 'd replied .
`` Just wish I could see you more often .
Hell , you could be in Paris right now , or Amsterdam . ''
`` I 'm not , '' I 'd answered .
`` You know that .
The checkpoints are too hot .
I 'm in the States as I 've been since Nine-Eleven .
I 'm closer than you think , and I 'll come see you one of these days , just not right now , and maybe I 'll take you to dinner .
We 'll sit in a restaurant like human beings .
But these days , I 'm not up to the meeting .
I like being alone . ''
There had been no assignment on that anniversary , so I was able to stay in the Mission Inn , and I 'd driven over to San Juan Capistrano the following morning .
No need at all to tell him I had an apartment in Beverly Hills right now , in a quiet and leafy place , and maybe next year it would be Palm Springs out in the desert .
No need to tell him that I did n't bother with disguises in this apartment , either , or in the surrounding neighborhood from which the Mission Inn was only an hour away .
In the past , I 'd never gone out without some sort of disguise , and I noted this change in myself with a cold equanimity .
I wondered sometimes if they would let me have my books if I ever went to jail .
The Mission Inn in Riverside , California , was my only constant .
I 'd fly across the country to make the drive to Riverside .
The Inn was where I most wanted to be .
The Right Man had gone on talking that evening .
`` Years ago , I bought you every recording in the world of lute music and the best instrument money can buy .
I bought you all those books you wanted .
Hell , I pulled some down off these shelves .
Are you still reading all the time , Lucky ?
You know you should have a chance to get more education , Lucky .
Maybe I should have looked out for you a little more than I did . ''
`` Boss , you 're worrying yourself about nothing .
I have more books now than I know what to do with .
Twice a month , I drop a box at some library .
I 'm perfectly fine . ''
`` What about a penthouse somewhere , Lucky ?
What about some rare books ?
There must be something I can get for you more than just money .
A penthouse would be nice , safe .
You 're always safe when you 're higher up . ''
`` Safe up in the sky ? ''
I 'd asked .
The fact was my Beverly Hills apartment was a penthouse , but the building was only five stories high .
`` Penthouses are usually reached by two methods , Boss , '' I said , `` and I do n't like being bottled up .
No thanks . ''
I felt secure in my Beverly Hills penthouse and it was walled with books on just about every epoch that had preceded the twentieth century .
I 'd known for a long time why I loved history .
It was because the historians made it sound so coherent , so purposeful , so complete .
They 'd take an entire century and impose a meaning on it , a personality , a destiny -- and this was , of course , a lie .
But it soothed me in my solitude to read that sort of writing , to think that the fourteenth century was a `` distant mirror , '' to paraphrase a famous title , to believe that we could learn from whole eras as if they had existed with marvelous continuity simply for us .
It was good reading in my apartment .
His shirt had a sheen to it , and mine was a workingman 's blue shirt , starched , pressed and finished off with a dark blue tie .
He looked to me rather like a perfect human being , his wondering eyes drifting over the flowers and the high palms against the sky as if he was savoring everything .
He even seemed to feel the breeze and to glory a little in it .
`` You 're an hour early , '' he said .
`` I know .
I ca n't sit still .
I feel better if I just wait here . ''
He nodded as though that was perfectly reasonable when in fact it was ridiculous .
`` She 's going to ask what I 've been doing all this time , '' I said .
`` What do I say to her ? ''
`` You 'll say only what 's good for her and for your son , '' he answered .
`` You know that . ''
`` Yes , I do , '' I conceded .
`` Upstairs , on your computer , '' he said , `` there 's a long document you wrote called 'Angel Time . '
`` '' Yes , well , I wrote that when I was waiting for you to come to me again .
I wrote down everything that happened on my first assignment . ''
`` That was good , '' he said , `` a form of meditation and it worked well .
But , Toby , no one must read that document , not now , and maybe not ever . ''
I should have known this .
I felt a little crestfallen but I understood .
With embarrassment I thought of how proud I 'd been to recount my first mission for the angels .
I 'd even boasted to The Right Man , my old boss , that I had changed my life , that I was writing about it , that maybe someday he 'd find my real name in the bookstores .
As if he cared , the man who 'd sent me as Lucky the Fox to kill over and over again .
Ah , such pride , but then , in all my adult life , I 'd never done anything before to be proud of .
And The Right Man was the only person in this world with whom I had regular conversations .
That is , until I had met Malchiah .
`` Children of the Angels come and go as we do , '' Malchiah said , `` only seen by a few , unseen and unheeded by others . ''
I nodded .
`` Is that what I am now , a Child of the Angels ? ''
`` Yes , '' he said , smiling .
`` That 's what you are .
Remember it . ''
With that he was gone .
And I was left realizing I had some fifty minutes to wait for Liona .
Maybe I 'd take a little walk , have a soda in the bar , I did n't know .
I only knew suddenly I was happy , and I was .
As I thought about this , I turned around , and looked towards the doors of the lobby , but for no particular reason .
I saw a figure there , to one side of the doors , a figure of a young man , who stood with arms folded , leaning against the wall , staring at me .
He was as vivid as anything around him , a tall man like Malchiah , only with reddish blond hair , and larger blue eyes , and he wore a khaki suit identical to my own .
I turned my back on him to avoid his fixed stare , and then I realized how unlikely it was that the guy should be wearing a suit exactly like mine , and staring at me like that , with an expression that was just short of anger .
No , it had n't been anger .
I turned back .
He was still staring .
It was concern , not anger .
You 're my guardian angel !
He gave me a near-imperceptible nod .
A remarkable sense of well-being came over me .
My anxiety melted away .
I 've heard your voice !
I 've heard you with the other angels .
I was fascinated and oddly comforted , and all of this in a split second .
A little crowd of guests came out of the lobby doors , passing in front of this figure , and obscuring him , and as they turned left to go along another path , I realized he had disappeared .
My heart was skipping .
Had I seen all this correctly ?
Had he really been staring at me , and had he nodded to me ?
My mental picture of this was fading rapidly .
Someone had been standing there , yes , of course , but there was no way now to check what had happened , to submit it to any kind of analysis .
I put it out of my mind .
If he was my guardian , what was he doing but guarding me ?
And if he was n't , if he 'd been someone else , well , what was that to me ?
My memory of this continued to fade .
And of course , I 'd settle the whole matter with Malchiah later .
Malchiah would know who he was .
Malchiah was with me .
Oh , we are creatures of such little faith .
An extraordinary contentment filled me suddenly .
You are a Child of the Angels , I thought , and the angels are bringing Liona and her son , your son , to you .
I took a long walk around the Mission Inn , thinking what a perfect cool California day it was , passing all my favorite fountains and chapel doorways and patios and curios and other such things , and it was just time then for her to have come .
I returned to the far end of the walkway , near the doors to the lobby , and I waited for two likely people to start up the path and then pause under the low arched campanario with its many bells .
I could n't have been there for longer than five minutes , pacing , looking around , checking my watch , moving in and out of the lobby now and then , when suddenly I realized that amid the steady flow of foot traffic along the path , there were two people standing right beneath the bells as I had asked those two people to do .
For a moment I thought my heart would stop .
I 'd expected her to be pretty because she 'd been pretty when she was a girl , but that had been the bud to this , the radiant flower , and I did n't want to do anything except stare at her , to drink in the woman she 'd become .
She was only twenty-seven .
Even I at twenty-eight knew that 's not very old , but she had a womanly manner about her , and she was dressed in the most becoming and most finished way .
She wore a red suit , fitted at the waist and flaring over her narrow hips , with a short flared skirt that just covered her knees .
Her pink blouse was open at her throat and there she wore a simple string of pearls .
There was a tiny bit of pink handkerchief in her breast pocket , and her purse was patent leather pink , and so were her graceful high-heeled shoes .
What a picture she was in those clothes .
Her long full black hair was loose over her shoulders , with only some of it drawn back from her clear forehead and fixed perhaps with a barrette , the way she 'd done it when she was a girl .
A sense came over me that I would remember her this way forever .
It did n't matter what would happen next or hereafter .
I would simply never forget the way she looked now , so gorgeous in red , with her full and girlish black hair .
In fact a passage came to me from a film , and it 's one that many people love .
It 's from the film Citizen Kane , and an old man named Bernstein speaks the passage as he reflects on memory and how things can strike us that we see for no more than a few seconds .
In his case , he 's describing a young woman he once glimpsed on a passing ferryboat .
`` A white dress she had on , '' he says , `` and she was carrying a white parasol .
I only saw her for one second and she did n't see me at all , but I 'll bet a month has not gone by since that I have n't thought of that girl . ''
Well , I knew that I would always remember Liona in that very way as to how she looked now .
She was looking around , and she had about her the self-confidence and self-possession I remembered , and yet the pure uncomplicated courage that I had always associated with her simplest gestures or words .
I could n't believe how lovely she was .
I could n't believe how simply , inevitably lovely she 'd become .
But right beside her was the ten-year-old boy who was my son , and when I saw him , I saw my brother Jacob who 'd died at that age , and I felt my throat tighten and the tears stand in my eyes .
This is my son .
You look exactly the same . ''
Her smile was so vibrant and so generous that I could n't answer her .
I could n't speak .
`` You 're going to make me cry if you do n't stop , '' she said .
She put her hand out and clasped my arm .
But he 's one of those immortal children whom mortals always take for a diminutive adult .
I ca n't `` hear '' Louis when I 'm spying , of course , since I made him , and makers and fledglings are deaf to each other , but my preternatural ears have never been better .
Outside their house , I easily picked up his rich , soft voice and the images of Louis in the minds of the others .
I could see the vividly colored baroque murals on their ceilings through the billowing lace curtains .
Lots of blue there-blue skies with rich rolling gold-tinged clouds .
Why not ?
And I could smell those crackling fires .
The townhouse complex was five stories , Belle Epoque , and grand .
Basements underneath and , high up there , an immense attic ballroom with a glass ceiling open to the stars .
They 'd made it into a palace , all right .
Armand has always been good at that , drawing on unimaginable reserves to pave his stunning headquarters in marble and antique plank and to furnish the rooms with the finest designs ever produced .
And he always made them secure .
The sad little icon painter from Russia , kidnapped and plunged into the West , had long ago embraced its humanist vision utterly .
Marius , his maker , surely must have seen this with some satisfaction a long time ago .
I wanted to join them .
Always do want to join them and never do .
In fact , I marveled at the way they lived-slipping out in Rolls-Royce limousines to attend the opera , the symphony , the ballet , wandering the museum openings together , so well integrated into the human world around them , even inviting mortals to those gilded salons for wine and refreshments .
Having mortal musicians in to play .
How splendidly they passed for human .
I marveled that I had ever lived that way , ever been able to do it with such finesse a century or more ago .
I watched them with the eyes of a hungry ghost .
The Voice rumbled and bellowed and whispered whenever I was there , rolling their names around in a stew of invective and rumination and demand .
One evening , the Voice said , `` Beauty is what drove it , do n't you see ?
It was the mystery of Beauty . ''
A year later , I was walking along the sands of South Beach in Miami when he broke that one on me again .
For the moment , the mavericks and rogues had been leaving me alone .
They were afraid of me , afraid of all the old ones .
But not enough .
`` Drove what , dear Voice ? ''
I asked .
I felt it was only fair to give him a few minutes before shutting him down .
`` You can not conceive of the magnitude of this mystery . ''
He spoke in a confidential whisper .
`` You can not conceive of this complexity . ''
He was saying these words as if he 'd just discovered them .
He wept .
I swear it .
He wept .
It was an awful sound .
I do n't glory in any being 's pain , not even the pain of my most sadistic enemies , and here was the Voice weeping .
I was hunting , thirsting though I did n't need to drink , at the mercy of the craving , the deep agonizing lust for heated pumping human blood .
I found a young victim , female , irresistible in her combination of filthy soul and gorgeous body , white throat so tender .
I had her in the fragrant darkened bedroom of her own lodgings , lights of the city beyond the windows , having come over the roofs to find her , this pale woman with glorious brown eyes and walnut-shaded skin , black hair like the snakes of Medusa , naked between the white linen sheets , struggling against me as I sank my fangs right into the carotid artery .
Too hungry for anything else .
Give me the heartbeat .
Give me the salt .
Give me the Viaticum .
Fill my mouth .
And then the blood erupted , roared .
Do n't rush this !
I was the victim suddenly laid waste as if by a phallic god , slammed by the rushing blood against the floor of the universe , the heart pounding , emptying the frail form it sought to protect .
And lo , she was dead .
Oh , too soon .
Crushed lily on the pillow , except she 'd been no lily and I 'd seen her grimy petty purple crimes as that blood made a fool of me , wasted me , left me warm , indeed hot , all over , licking my lips .
Ca n't bear to linger near a dead human .
Out over the roofs again .
`` Did you enjoy that , Voice ? ''
I asked .
I stretched like a cat under the moon .
`` Hmmm , '' he replied .
`` Have always loved it , of course . ''
`` Then stop all the weeping . ''
He drifted off then .
That was a first .
He left me .
I hit him with one question after another .
No answer .
No one there .
Three years ago , this happened .
I was in a wretched state , down and out , disgusted and discouraged .
Things were bad all over the vampire world , no doubt about it .
Benji in his endless broadcasts was calling for me to come out of exile .
And others were joining him in that appeal .
`` Lestat , we need you . ''
Tales of woe abounded .
And I could n't find many of my friends anymore-not Marius , or David Talbot , or even the ancient twins .
Time was when I could find any and all of them fairly easily , but no more .
`` We are a parentless tribe ! ''
Benji cried over the internet vampire radio station .
`` Young ones , be wise .
Flee the old ones when you see them .
They are not our elders , no matter how many years they have in the Blood .
They have refused all responsibility for their brothers and sisters .
Be wise ! ''
On this dreary cold night , I 'd been thirsty , more thirsty than I could bear .
Oh , I do n't technically need the blood anymore .
I have so much blood from Akasha in my veins-the primal blood from the old Mother-that I can exist forever without feeding .
But I was thirsting , and I had to have it to stanch the misery , or so I told myself , on a little late-night rampage in the city of Amsterdam , feeding off every reprobate and killer I could find .
I 'd hidden the bodies .
I 'd been careful .
But it had been grim-that hot , delicious blood pumping into me and all those visions with it of filthy and degenerate minds , all that intimacy with the emotions I deplore .
Oh , same old , same old .
I was sick at heart .
In moods like this , I 'm a menace to the innocent , and I know it only too well .
Around four in the morning , it had me so bad , I was in a little public park , sitting on an iron bench in the damp , doubled over , in a bad seedy part of the city , the late-night lights looking garish and sooty through the mist .
And I was cold all over and fearing now that I simply was n't going to endure .
I was n't going to `` make it '' in the Blood .
I was n't going to be a true immortal like the great Marius or Mekare or Maharet or Khayman , or even Armand .
This was n't living , what I was doing .
And at one point the pain was so acute , it was like a blade turning in my heart and in my brain .
`` Tell me - how old are you , Reuben ?
I , m thirty-eight .
How is that for total honesty ?
Do you know many women who volunteer that they , re thirty-eight ? ''
`` You don , t look it , '' he said .
And he meant it .
What he wanted to say was You , re rather perfect , if you ask me .
`` I , m twenty-three , '' he confessed .
`` Twenty-three ?
You , re just a boy . ''
Of course .
`` Sunshine Boy , '' as his girlfriend Celeste always called him .
`` Little Boy , '' according to his big brother , Fr .
Jim .
And `` Baby Boy , '' according to his mother , who still called him that in front of people .
Only his dad consistently called him Reuben and saw only him when their eyes met .
Dad , you should see this house !
Talk about a place for writing , talk about a getaway , talk about a landscape for a creative mind .
He shoved his freezing hands in his pockets and tried to ignore the sting of the wind in his eyes .
They were making their way back up to the promise of hot coffee and a fire .
`` And so tall for that age , '' she said .
`` I think you , re uncommonly sensitive , Reuben , to appreciate this rather cold and grim corner of the earth .
When I was twenty-three I wanted to be in New York and Paris .
I was in New York and Paris .
I wanted the capitals of the world .
What , have I insulted you ? ''
`` No , certainly not , '' he said .
He was reddening again .
`` I , m talking too much about myself , Marchent .
My mind , s on the story , never fear .
Scrub oak , high grass , damp earth , ferns , I , m recording everything . ''
`` Ah yes , the fresh young mind and memory , nothing like it , '' she said .
`` Darling , we , re going to spend two days together , aren , t we ?
Expect me to be personal .
You , re ashamed of being young , aren , t you ?
Well , you needn , t be .
And you , re distractingly handsome , you know , why you , re just about the most adorable boy I , ve ever seen in my entire life .
No , I mean it .
With looks like yours , you don , t have to be much of anything , you know . ''
He shook his head .
If she only knew .
He hated it when people called him handsome , adorable , cute , to die for .
`` And how will you feel if they ever stop ? ''
his girlfriend Celeste had asked him .
`` Ever think about that ?
Look , Sunshine Boy , with me , it , s strictly your looks . ''
She had a way of teasing with an edge , Celeste did .
Maybe all teasing had an edge .
`` Now , I really have insulted you , haven , t I ? ''
asked Marchent .
`` Forgive me .
I think all of us ordinary mortals tend to mythologize people as good-looking as you .
But of course what makes you so remarkable is that you have a poet , s soul . ''
They had reached the edge of the flagstone terrace .
Something had changed in the air .
The wind was even more cutting .
The sun was indeed dying behind the silver clouds and headed for the darkening sea .
She stopped for a moment , as if to catch her breath , but he couldn , t tell .
The wind whipped the tendrils of her hair around her face , and she put a hand up to shelter her eyes .
She looked at the high windows of the house as if searching for something , and there came over Reuben the most forlorn feeling .
The loneliness of the place pressed in .
They were miles from the little town of Nideck and Nideck had , what , two hundred real inhabitants ?
He , d stopped there on the way in and found most of the shops on the little main street were closed .
The bed-and-breakfast had been for sale `` forever , '' said the clerk at the gas station , but yes , you have cell phone and Internet connections everywhere in the county , no need to worry about that .
Right now , the world beyond this windswept terrace seemed unreal .
`` Does it have ghosts , Marchent ? ''
he asked , following her gaze to the windows .
`` It doesn , t need them , '' she declared .
`` The recent history is grim enough . ''
`` Well , I love it , '' he said .
`` The Nidecks were people of remarkable vision .
Something tells me you , ll get a very romantic buyer , one who can transform it into a unique and unforgettable hotel . ''
`` Now that , s a thought , '' she said .
`` But why would anyone come here , in particular , Reuben ?
The beach is narrow and hard to reach .
The redwoods are glorious but you don , t have to drive four hours from San Francisco to reach glorious redwoods in California .
And you saw the town .
There is nothing here really except Nideck Point , as you call it .
I have a suffocating feeling sometimes that this house won , t be standing much longer . ''
`` Oh , no !
Let , s not even think of that .
Why , no one would dare - . ''
She took his arm again and they moved on over the sandy flags , past his car , and towards the distant front door .
`` I , d fall in love with you if you were my age , '' she said .
`` If I , d met anyone quite as charming as you , I wouldn , t be alone now , would I ? ''
`` Why would a woman like you ever have to be alone ? ''
he asked .
He had seldom met someone so confident and graceful .
Even now after the trek in the woods , she looked as collected and groomed as a woman shopping on Rodeo Drive .
There was a thin little bracelet around her left wrist , a pearl chain , he believed they called it , and it gave her easy gestures an added glamour .
He couldn , t quite tell why .
There were no trees to the west of them .
The view was open for all the obvious reasons .
But the wind was positively howling off the ocean now , and the gray mist was descending on the last sparkle of the sea .
I , ll get the mood of all this , he thought .
I , ll get this strange darkening moment .
And a little shadow fell deliciously over his soul .
He wanted this place .
Maybe it would have been better if they , d sent someone else to do this story , but they , d sent him .
What remarkable luck .
They had dinner together at the round oak table , Reuben in a terry-cloth robe she 'd found for him , and Laura in one of those lovely white flannel gowns she so loved .
This one was trimmed with a bit of blue embroidery and blue ribbon on the collar and cuffs and placket , and it had blue buttons , a flattering complement to her dazzled , confidential smile , and her glowing skin .
They said nothing as they ate the meal , Reuben devouring everything as always , and Laura to his surprise actually eating her food rather than pushing it around on her plate .
A stillness fell over them when they 'd finished .
The fire was snapping and rustling in the living room fireplace .
And the whole little house seemed safe and strong against the rain that hammered on the roof and the panes .
What had it been like to grow up under this roof ?
He could n't imagine .
Morphenkind or not , he realized , the great woods still represented for him a wilderness .
This was something he loved , that they did not make small talk , that they could go hours without talking , that they talked without talking , but what were they saying to one another , without words , just now ?
She sat motionless in the oak chair with only her left hand on the table , her right hand in her lap .
It seemed she 'd been watching him as he cleaned the plate , and he sensed it now and sensed something particularly enticing about her , about the fullness of her lips and the mass of her hair that framed her face .
Then it came over him , came over him like a chill stealing over his face and neck .
Why in the world had n't he realized immediately .
`` You 've done it , '' he whispered .
`` You 've taken the Chrism . ''
She did n't answer .
It was as if he had n't spoken at all .
Her eyes were darker , yes , and her hair was fuller , much fuller , and even her grayish-blond eyebrows had darkened , so that she looked like a sister of herself , almost identical yet wholly different , with even a darker glow to her cheeks .
Dear God , he whispered without words .
And then his heart began tripping and he felt he was going to be sick .
This is how he 'd looked to others in those days before the transformation had come on him , when those around him knew something had `` happened '' to him and he 'd felt so completely remote , and without fear .
Was she that remote from him now , as he 'd been from all his family ?
No , that could n't be .
This was Laura , Laura who 'd just welcomed him , Laura who 'd just taken him into her bed .
He blushed .
Why had he not known ?
Nothing changed in her expression , nothing at all .
That 's how it had been with him .
He 'd stared like that , knowing others wanted something from him , but unable to give it .
But then , in his arms , she 'd been soft and melting as always , giving , trusting , close .
`` Felix did n't tell you ? ''
she asked .
Even her voice seemed different , now that he knew .
Just a richer timbre to it , and he could have sworn that the bones of her face were slightly larger , but that might have been his fear .
He could n't get the words out .
He did n't know what the words were .
A flash of the heat of their lovemaking came back to him , and he felt an immediate arousal .
He wanted her again , and yet he felt , what , sick ?
Was he sick with fear ?
He hated himself .
`` How do you feel ? ''
he managed .
`` Are you feeling bad at all , I mean are there any bad side effects ? ''
`` I was a little sick in the beginning , '' she said .
`` And you were alone and no one- ? ''
`` Thibault 's been here every night , '' she said .
`` Sometimes Sergei .
Sometimes Felix . ''
`` Those devils , '' he whispered .
`` Reuben , do n't , '' she said in the most simple and sincere way .
`` You must n't for a moment think that anything bad has happened .
You must n't . ''
`` I know , '' he murmured .
He felt a throbbing in his face and in his hands .
Of all places , his hands .
The blood was rushing in his veins .
`` But were you ever in any kind of danger ? ''
`` No , none , '' she said .
`` That simply does n't happen .
They explained all that .
Not when the Chrism 's passed and there are no real injuries to the person .
Those who die , die when their injuries ca n't be overtaken by the Chrism . ''
`` I figured as much , '' he said .
`` But we do n't have a rule book to consult when we begin to worry , do we ? ''
She did n't answer .
`` When did you decide ? ''
`` I decided almost immediately , '' she said .
`` I could n't resist it .
It was pointless to tell myself I was pondering it , giving it the consideration it deserved . ''
Her voice grew warmer and so did her expression .
This was Laura , his Laura .
`` I wanted it , and I told Felix and I told Thibault . ''
He studied her , ignoring the impulse to take her to the bed again .
Her skin looked moist , youthful , and though she 'd never looked old , she 'd been powerfully enhanced , there was no doubt of it .
He could hardly bear to look at her lips and not kiss them .
`` I went to the cemetery , '' she said .
`` I talked to my father . ''
She looked off , obviously not finding this easy .
`` Well , talked as if I could talk to my father , '' she said .
`` They 're all buried there , you know , my sister , my mother , my father .
I talked to them .
Talked to them about all of it .
But I 'd made the decision before I ever left Nideck Point .
I knew I was going to do it . ''
`` All this time , I was figuring you 'd refuse , you 'd say no . ''
`` Why ? ''
she asked gently .
`` Why would you think such a thing ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' he said .
`` Because you had lost so much and you might want so much more .
Because you 'd lost children , and you might want a child again , not a Morphenkind child , whatever that would be , but a child .
Or because you believed in life , and thought life itself is worth what we give up for it . ''
`` It is worth dying for ? ''
she asked .
He did n't answer .
`` You speak like you have regrets , '' she said .
`` But I guess that 's bound to happen . ''
`` I do n't have regrets , '' he said .
`` I do n't know what I feel , but I could imagine your saying no .
`` You do n't want an Alfa Romeo or a night with Nicole Kidman or the biggest house in the French Quarter ? ''
The businessman shook his head decisively .
`` I 'm sure something will come up that I do want , and then I 'd like to have a very good chance of getting it .
I was a successful man until Katrina .
And after Katrina I thought I would be rich , because I own a lumber business .
Everyone needed lumber . ''
He took a deep breath .
He kept on telling his story , despite the fact that the devil looked bored .
`` But getting a supply line reestablished was hard .
So many people did n't have money to spend because they were ruined , and there was the wait for the insurance money , for the rest .
I made some mistakes , believing the fly-by-night builders would pay me on time ... ...
It all ended up with my business too extended , everyone owing me , my credit stretched as thin as a condom on an elephant .
Knowledge of this is getting around . ''
He looked down .
`` I 'm losing the influence I had in this city . ''
Possibly the devil had known all those things , and that was why he 'd approached the businessman .
Clearly he was not interested in the businessman 's litany of woes .
`` Prosperity it is , then , '' he said briskly .
`` And I look forward to your special request .
Tyrese , what do you want ?
I have your soul , too . ''
`` I do n't believe in souls , '' Tyrese said flatly .
`` I do n't think my boss does , either .
We do n't mind giving you what we do n't believe we have . ''
He grinned at the devil , man-to-man , which was a mistake .
The devil was no man .
The devil smiled back .
Tyrese 's grin vanished at the sight .
`` What do you want ? ''
the devil repeated .
`` I wo n't ask again . ''
`` I want Gypsy Kidd .
Her real name is Katy Sherboni , if you need that .
She work at Bourbon Street Babes .
I want her to love me the way I love her . ''
The businessman looked disappointed in his employee .
`` Tyrese , I wish you 'd asked for something more lasting .
Sex is everywhere you look in New Orleans , and girls like Gypsy are a dime a dozen . ''
`` You wrong , '' Tyrese said .
`` I do n't think I have a soul , but I know love is once in a lifetime .
I love Gypsy .
If she loves me back , I 'll be a happy man .
And if you make money , boss , I 'll make money .
I 'll have enough .
I 'm not greedy . ''
`` I 'm all about the greed , '' said the devil , almost gently .
`` You may end up wishing you 'd asked for some government bonds , Tyrese . ''
The chauffeur shook his head .
`` I 'm happy with my bargain .
You give me Gypsy , the rest will be all right .
I know it . ''
The devil looked at him with what seemed very much like pity , if that emotion was possible for a devil .
`` Enjoy yourselves , you hear ? ''
he said to both of the newly soulless men .
They could not tell if he was mocking them or if he was sincere .
`` Tyrese , you will not see me again until our final meeting . ''
He faced the businessman .
`` Sir , you and I will meet at some date in the future .
Just give me a call when you 're ready for your signing bonus .
Here 's my card . ''
The businessman took the plain white card .
The only writing on it was a phone number .
It was not the same number he 'd called to set up the first rendezvous .
`` But what if it 's years from now ? ''
he said .
`` It wo n't be , '' said the devil , but his voice was farther away .
The businessman looked up to see that the devil was half a block away .
After seven more steps he seemed to melt into the dirty sidewalk , leaving only an impression in the cold damp air .
The businessman and the chauffeur turned and walked hastily in the opposite direction .
The chauffeur never saw this version of the devil again .
The businessman did n't see him until June .
JUNE Far away - thousands of miles away - a tall , thin man lay on a beach in Baja .
He was not in one of the tourist spots where he might encounter lots of other gringos , who might recognize him .
He was patronizing a dilapidated bar , really more of a hut .
For a small cash payment , the proprietor would rent patrons a large towel and a beach umbrella , and send his son out to refresh your drink from time to time .
As long as you kept drinking .
Though the tall man was only sipping Coca-Cola , he was paying through the nose for it - though he did n't seem to realize that , or perhaps he did n't care .
He sat on the towel , crouched in the umbrella 's shade , wearing a hat and sunglasses and swim trunks .
Close to him was an ancient backpack , and his flip-flops were set on the sand beside it , casting off a faint smell of hot rubber .
The tall man was listening to an iPod , and his smile indicated he was very pleased with what he heard .
He lifted his hat to run his fingers through his hair .
It was golden blond , but there was a bit of root showing that hinted his natural color was nearly gray .
Judging by his body , he was in his forties .
He had a small head in relation to his broad shoulders , and he did not look like a man who was used to manual labor .
He did n't look rich , either ; his entire ensemble , the flip-flops and the swim trunks , the hat and the cast-aside shirt , had come from a Wal-Mart or some even cheaper dollar store .
It did n't pay to look affluent in Baja , not with the way things were these days .
It was n't safe , gringos were n't exempt from the violence , and most tourists stayed in the established resorts , flying in and out without driving through the countryside .
There were a few other expats around , mostly unattached men with an air of desperation ... or secrecy .
Their reasons for choosing such a hazardous place to live were better not discovered .
Asking questions could be unhealthy .
One of these expats , a recent arrival , came to sit close to the tall man , too close for such proximity to be an accident on a thinly populated beach .
The tall man gave the unwelcome newcomer a sideways look from behind his dark glasses , which were obviously prescription .
The newcomer was a man in his thirties , not tall or short , not handsome or ugly , not reedy or muscular .
He was medium in all aspects , physically .
This medium man had been watching the tall man for a few days , and the tall man had been sure he 'd approach him sooner or later .
The medium man had carefully selected the optimum moment .
The two were sitting in a place on the beach where no one else could hear them or approach them unseen , and even with satellites in the atmosphere it was probable that no one could see them without being spotted , either .
The taller man was mostly hidden under the beach umbrella .
He noticed that his visitor was sitting in its shadow .
`` What are you listening to ? ''
He had barely done it when he heard Faulks give a small cry of despair .
He turned to see the old fellow wringing his hands in abject misery .
`` I just blinked , sir ! ''
he quavered .
`` Only blinked ! ''
It had been enough .
A fraction of a second unwatched , and the was gone from the sill .
Resignedly , they once again took up the search .
Sir Harry Mandifer settled back comfortably in the cushioned seat of his limousine and congratulated himself on settling the business of Marston Rectory the night before .
It would not have done to leave that dangerous affair in the lurch , but the bones of the Mewing Nun had been found at last , and now she would rest peacefully in a consecrated grave .
No more would headless children decorate the Cornish landscape , no more would the nights resound with mothers ' lamentations .
He had done his job , done it well , and now he was free to investigate what sounded a perfectly charming mystery .
Contentedly , the large man lit a cigar and watched the streets go sliding by .
Delicious that a man as cautiously organized as poor old Archer should find himself confronted with something so outrageous .
It only showed you that the tidiest lives have nothing but quicksand for a base .
The snuggest haven 's full of trapdoors and sliding panels , unsuspected attics and suddenly discovered rooms .
Why should the careful Archer find himself exempt ?
And he had n't .
The limousine drifted to a gentle stop before Archer 's house and Mandifer , emerging from his car , gazed up at the building with pleasure .
It was a gracious Georgian structure which had been in Archer 's family since the time of its construction .
Mandifer mounted its steps and was about to apply himself to its knocker when the door flew open and he found himself facing a desperately agitated Faulks .
`` Oh , sir , '' gasped the butler , speaking in piteous tones , `` I 'm so glad you could come !
We do n't know what to make of it , sir , and we ca n't hardly keep track of it , it moves so fast ! ''
`` There , Faulks , there , '' rumbled Sir Harry , moving smoothly into the entrance with the unstoppable authority of a great clipper ship under full sail .
`` It ca n't be as bad as all that now , can it ? ''
`` Oh , it can , sir , it can , '' said Faulks , following in Mandifer 's wake down the hall .
`` You just ca n't get a hold on it , sir , is what it is , and every time it 's back , it 's bigger , sir ! ''
`` In the study , is n't it ? ''
asked Sir Harry , opening the door of that room and gazing inside .
He stood stock-still and his eyes widened a trifle because the sight before him , even for one so experienced in peculiar sights as he , was startling .
Imagine a beautiful room , exquisitely furnished , impeccably maintained .
Imagine the occupant of that room to be a thin , tallish gentleman , dressed faultlessly , in the best possible taste .
Conceive of the whole thing , man and room in combination , to be a flawless example of the sort of styled perfection that only large amounts of money , filtered through generations of confident privilege , can produce .
Now see that man on his hands and knees , in one of the room 's corners , staring , bug-eyed , at the wall , and , on the wall , picture : '' Remarkable , '' said Sir Harry Mandifer .
`` Is n't it , sir ? ''
moaned Faulks .
`` Oh , is n't it ? ''
`` I 'm so glad you could come , Sir Harry , '' said Archer , from his crouched position in the corner .
It was difficult to make out his words as he spoke them through clenched teeth .
`` Forgive me for not rising , but if I take my eyes off this thing or even blink , the whole-oh , God damn it ! ''
Instantly , the vanished from the wall .
Archer gave out an explosive sigh , clapped his hands to his face , and sat back heavily on the floor .
`` Do n't tell me where it 's got to now , Faulks , '' he said , `` I do n't want to know ; I do n't want to hear about it . ''
Faulks said nothing , only touched a trembling hand on Sir Harry 's shoulder and pointed to the ceiling .
There , almost directly in its center , was : Sir Harry leaned his head close to Faulks 's ear and whispered : `` Keep looking at it for as long as you can , old man .
Try not to let it get away . ''
Then in his normal , conversational tone , which was a kind of cheerful roar , he spoke to Archer : `` Seems you have a bit of a sticky problem here , what ? ''
Archer looked up grimly from between his fingers .
Then , carefully , he lowered his arms and stood .
He brushed himself off , made a few adjustments on his coat and tie , and spoke : '' I 'm sorry , Sir Harry .
I 'm afraid I rather let it get the better of me . ''
`` No such thing ! ''
boomed Sir Harry Mandifer , clapping Archer on the back .
`` Besides , it 's enough to rattle anyone .
Gave me quite a turn , myself , and I 'm used to this sort of nonsense ! ''
Sir Harry had developed his sturdy technique of encouragement during many a campaign in a haunted house and ghost-ridden moor , and it did not fail him now .
Archer 's return to self-possession was almost immediate .
Satisfied at the restoration , Sir Harry looked up at the ceiling .
`` You say it started as a kind of spot ? ''
he asked , peering at the dark thing which spread above them .
`` About as big as a penny , '' answered Archer .
`` What have the stages been like , between then and now ? ''
`` Little bits come out of it .
They get bigger , and , at the same time , other little bits come popping out , and , as if that were n't enough , the whole ghastly thing keeps swelling , like some damned balloon . ''
`` Nasty , '' said Sir Harry .
`` I 'd say it 's gotten to be a yard across , '' said Archer .
`` At least . ''
`` What do you make of it , Sir Harry ? ''
`` It looks to me like a sort of plant . ''
Both the butler and Archer gaped at him .
The instantly disappeared .
`` I 'm sorry , sir , '' said the butler , stricken .
`` What do you mean , plant ? ''
asked Archer .
`` It ca n't be a plant , Sir Harry .
It 's perfectly flat , for one thing . ''
`` Have you touched it ? ''
Archer sniffed .
`` Not very likely , '' he said .
Discreetly , the butler cleared his throat .
`` It 's on the floor , gentlemen , '' he said .
The three looked down at the thing with reflectful expressions .
Its longest reach was now a little over four feet .
`` You 'll notice , '' said Harry , `` that the texture of the carpet does not show through the blackness , therefore it 's not like ink , or some other stain .
It has an independent surface . ''
He stooped down , surprisingly graceful for a man of his size , and , pulling a pencil from his pocket , poked at the thing .
The pencil went into the darkness for about a quarter of an inch , and then stopped .
He jabbed at another point , this time penetrating a good , full inch .
`` You see , '' said Sir Harry , standing .
`` It does have a complex kind of shape .
Our eyes can perceive it only in a two-dimensional way , but the sense of touch moves it along to the third .
The obvious implication of all this length , width and breadth business is that your plant 's drifted in from some other dimensional set , do you see ?
I should imagine the original spot was its seed .
Am I making myself clear on all this ?
Do you understand ? ''
Archer did not , quite , but he gave a reasonably good imitation of a man who had .
`` But why did the accursed thing show up here ? ''
he asked .
Sir Harry seemed to have the answer for that one too , but Faulks interrupted it , whatever it may have been , and we shall never know it .
`` Oh , sir , '' he cried .
She said to her mother , `` Where does that door go ? ''
`` Nowhere , dear . ''
`` It has to go somewhere . ''
Her mother shook her head .
`` Look , '' she told Coraline .
She reached up and took a string of keys from the top of the kitchen doorframe .
She sorted through them carefully , and selected the oldest , biggest , blackest , rustiest key .
They went into the drawing room .
She unlocked the door with the key .
The door swung open .
Her mother was right .
The door did n't go anywhere .
It opened onto a brick wall .
`` When this place was just one house , '' said Coraline 's mother , `` that door went somewhere .
When they turned the house into flats , they simply bricked it up .
The other side is the empty flat on the other side of the house , the one that 's still for sale . ''
She shut the door and put the string of keys back on top of the kitchen doorframe .
`` You did n't lock it , '' said Coraline .
Her mother shrugged .
`` Why should I lock it ? ''
she asked .
`` It does n't go anywhere . ''
Coraline did n't say anything .
It was nearly dark outside now , and the rain was still coming down , pattering against the windows and blurring the lights of the cars in the street outside .
Coraline 's father stopped working and made them all dinner .
Coraline was disgusted .
`` Daddy , '' she said , `` you 've made a recipe again . ''
`` It 's leek and potato stew with a tarragon garnish and melted Gruyere cheese , '' he admitted .
Coraline sighed .
Then she went to the freezer and got out some microwave chips and a microwave minipizza .
`` You know I do n't like recipes , '' she told her father , while her dinner went around and around and the little red numbers on the microwave oven counted down to zero .
`` If you tried it , maybe you 'd like it , '' said Coraline 's father , but she shook her head .
That night , Coraline lay awake in her bed .
The rain had stopped , and she was almost asleep when something went t-t-t-t-t-t. She sat up in bed .
Something went kreeee ... ... aaaak Coraline got out of bed and looked down the hall , but saw nothing strange .
She walked down the hall .
From her parents ' bedroom came a low snoring-that was her father-and an occasional sleeping mutter-that was her mother .
Coraline wondered if she 'd dreamed it , whatever it was .
Something moved .
It was little more than a shadow , and it scuttled down the darkened hall fast , like a little patch of night .
She hoped it was n't a spider .
Spiders made Coraline intensely uncomfortable .
The black shape went into the drawing room , and Coraline followed it a little nervously .
The room was dark .
The only light came from the hall , and Coraline , who was standing in the doorway , cast a huge and distorted shadow onto the drawing room carpet-she looked like a thin giant woman .
Coraline was just wondering whether or not she ought to turn on the lights when she saw the black shape edge slowly out from beneath the sofa .
It paused , and then dashed silently across the carpet toward the farthest corner of the room .
There was no furniture in that corner of the room .
Coraline turned on the light .
There was nothing in the corner .
Nothing but the old door that opened onto the brick wall .
She was sure that her mother had shut the door , but now it was ever so slightly open .
Just a crack .
Coraline went over to it and looked in .
There was nothing there-just a wall , built of red bricks .
Coraline closed the old wooden door , turned out the light , and went to bed .
She dreamed of black shapes that slid from place to place , avoiding the light , until they were all gathered together under the moon .
Little black shapes with little red eyes and sharp yellow teeth .
They started to sing , We are small but we are many We are many we are small We were here before you rose We will be here when you fall .
Their voices were high and whispering and slightly whiney .
They made Coraline feel uncomfortable .
Then Coraline dreamed a few commercials , and after that she dreamed of nothing at all .
II .
THE NEXT DAY IT HAD stopped raining , but a thick white fog had lowered over the house .
`` I 'm going for a walk , '' said Coraline .
`` Do n't go too far , '' said her mother .
`` And dress up warmly . ''
Coraline put on her blue coat with a hood , her red scarf , and her yellow Wellington boots .
She went out .
Miss Spink was walking her dogs .
`` Hello , Caroline , '' said Miss Spink .
`` Rotten weather . ''
`` Yes , '' said Coraline .
`` I played Portia once , '' said Miss Spink .
`` Miss Forcible talks about her Ophelia , but it was my Portia they came to see .
When we trod the boards . ''
Miss Spink was bundled up in pullovers and cardigans , so she seemed more small and circular than ever .
She looked like a large , fluffy egg .
She wore thick glasses that made her eyes seem huge .
`` They used to send flowers to my dressing room .
They did , '' she said .
`` Who did ? ''
asked Coraline .
Miss Spink looked around cautiously , looking over first one shoulder and then over the other , peering into the mists as though someone might be listening .
`` Men , '' she whispered .
Then she tugged the dogs to heel and waddled off back toward the house .
Coraline continued her walk .
She was three quarters of the way around the house when she saw Miss Forcible , standing at the door to the flat she shared with Miss Spink .
`` Have you seen Miss Spink , Caroline ? ''
Coraline told her that she had , and that Miss Spink was out walking the dogs .
`` I do hope she does n't get lost-it 'll bring on her shingles if she does , you 'll see , '' said Miss Forcible .
`` You 'd have to be an explorer to find your way around in this fog . ''
`` I 'm an explorer , '' said Coraline .
`` Of course you are , luvvy , '' said Miss Forcible .
`` Do n't get lost , now . ''
Coraline continued walking through the gardens in the gray mist .
She always kept in sight of the house .
After about ten minutes of walking she found herself back where she had started .
The hair over her eyes was limp and wet , and her face felt damp .
`` Ahoy !
Mr. Ross had no other resemblance to a canary .
He was huge-almost as big as Mr. Vandemar-and extremely grubby , and quite hairless , and he said very little , although he had made a point of telling each of them that he liked to kill things , and he was good at it ; and this amused Mr. Croup and Mr. Vandemar .
But he was a canary , and he never knew it .
So Mr. Ross went first , in his filthy T-shirt and his crusted blue-jeans , and Croup and Vandemar walked behind him , in their elegant black suits .
Also , they look nothing at all alike .
A rustle in the tunnel darkness ; Mr. Vandemar 's knife was in his hand , and then it was no longer in his hand , and it was quivering gently almost thirty feet away .
He walked over to his knife and picked it up by the hilt .
There was a gray rat impaled on the blade , its mouth opening and closing impotently as the life fled .
He crushed its skull between finger and thumb .
`` Now , there 's one rat that wo n't be telling any more tales , '' said Mr. Croup .
He chuckled at his own joke .
Mr. Vandemar did not respond .
`` Rat .
Tales .
Get it ? ''
Mr. Vandemar pulled the rat from the blade and began to munch on it , thoughtfully , head first .
Mr. Croup slapped it out of his hands .
`` Stop that , '' he said .
Mr. Vandemar put his knife away , a little sullenly .
`` Buck up , '' hissed Mr. Croup , encouragingly .
`` There will always be another rat .
Now : onward .
Things to do .
People to damage . ''
Three years in London had not changed Richard , although it had changed the way he perceived the city .
Richard had originally imagined London as a gray city , even a black city , from pictures he had seen , and he was surprised to find it filled with color .
It was a city of red brick and white stone , red buses and large black taxis , bright red mailboxes and green grassy parks and cemeteries .
When he had first arrived , he had found London huge , odd , fundamentally incomprehensible , with only the Tube map , that elegant multicolored topographical display of underground railway lines and stations , giving it any semblance of order .
Gradually he realized that the Tube map was a handy fiction that made life easier but bore no resemblance to the reality of the shape of the city above .
It was like belonging to a political party , he thought once , proudly , and then , having tried to explain the resemblance between the Tube map and politics , at a party , to a cluster of bewildered strangers , he had decided in the future to leave political comment to others .
Two thousand years before , London had been a little Celtic village on the north shore of the Thames , which the Romans had encountered , then settled in .
London grew into something huge and contradictory .
It was a good place , and a fine city , but there is a price to be paid for all good places , and a price that all good places have to pay .
After a while , Richard found himself taking London for granted ; in time , he began to pride himself on having visited none of the sights of London ( except for the Tower of London , when his Aunt Maude came down to the city for a weekend , and Richard found himself her reluctant escort ) .
But Jessica changed all that .
`` Here 's your tea and your eclair , '' he told her .
`` It would have cost less to buy one of those Tintorettos . ''
`` Do n't exaggerate , '' said Jessica cheerfully .
`` Anyway , there are n't any Tintorettos at the Tate . ''
`` I should have had that cherry cake , '' said Richard .
`` Then they would have been able to afford another Van Gogh . ''
Richard had met Jessica in France , on a weekend trip to Paris two years earlier ; had in fact discovered her in the Louvre , trying to find the group of his office friends who had organized the trip .
Staring up at an immense sculpture , he had stepped backwards into Jessica , who was admiring an extremely large and historically important diamond .
He tried to apologize to her in French , which he did not speak , gave up , and began to apologize in English , then tried to apologize in French for having to apologize in English , until he noticed that Jessica was about as English as it was possible for any one person to be .
By this time she decided he should buy her an expensive French sandwich and some overpriced carbonated apple juice , by way of apology , and , well , that was the start of it all , really .
He had never been able to convince Jessica that he was n't the kind of person who went to art galleries after that .
On weekends when they did not go to art galleries or to museums , Richard would trail behind Jessica as she went shopping , which she did , on the whole , in affluent Knightsbridge , a short walk and an even shorter taxi ride from her apartment in a Kensington mews .
Richard would accompany Jessica on her tours of such huge and intimidating emporia as Harrods and Harvey Nichols , stores where Jessica was able to purchase anything , from jewelry , to books , to the week 's groceries .
Richard had been awed by Jessica , who was beautiful , and often quite funny , and was certainly going somewhere .
And Jessica saw in Richard an enormous amount of potential , which , properly harnessed by the right woman , would have made him the perfect matrimonial accessory .
If only he were a little more focused , she would murmur to herself , and so she gave him books with titles like Dress for Success and A Hundred and Twenty-Five Habits of Successful Men , and books on how to run a business like a military campaign , and Richard always said thank you , and always intended to read them .
In Harvey Nichols 's men 's fashion department she would pick out for him the kinds of clothes she thought that he should wear-and he wore them , during the week , anyway ; and , a year to the day after their first encounter , she told him she thought it was time that they went shopping for an engagement ring .
`` Why do you go out with her ? ''
asked Gary , in Corporate Accounts , eighteen months later .
`` She 's terrifying . ''
Richard shook his head .
`` She 's really sweet , once you get to know her . ''
Gary put down the plastic troll doll he had picked up from Richard 's desk .
`` I 'm surprised she still lets you play with these . ''
`` The subject has never come up , '' said Richard , picking up one of the creatures from his desk .
It had a shock of Day-Glo orange hair , and a slightly baffled expression , as if it were lost .
And the subject had indeed come up .
Jessica had , however , convinced herself that Richard 's troll collection was a mark of endearing eccentricity , comparable to Mr. Stockton 's collection of angels .
Jessica was in the process of organizing a traveling exhibition of Mr. Stockton 's angel collection , and she had come to the conclusion that great men always collected something .
In actuality Richard did not really collect trolls .
He had found a troll on the sidewalk outside the office , and , in a vain attempt at injecting a little personality into his working world , he had placed it on his computer monitor .
The others had followed over the next few months , gifts from colleagues who had noticed that Richard had a penchant for the ugly little creatures .
He had taken the gifts and positioned them , strategically , around his desk , beside the telephones and the framed photograph of Jessica .
The photograph had a yellow Post-it note stuck to it .
It was a Friday afternoon .
Richard had noticed that events were cowards : they did n't occur singly , but instead they would run in packs and leap out at him all at once .
Take this particular Friday , for example .
It was , as Jessica had pointed out to him at least a dozen times in the last month , the most important day of his life .
So it was unfortunate that , despite the Post-it note Richard had left on his fridge door at home , and the other Post-it note he had placed on the photograph of Jessica on his desk , he had forgotten about it completely and utterly .
Also , there was the Wandsworth report , which was overdue and taking up most of his head .
Richard checked another row of figures ; then he noticed that page 17 had vanished , and he set it up to print out again ; and another page down , and he knew that if he were only left alone to finish it ... if , miracle of miracles , the phone did not ring ...
It rang .
He thumbed the speakerphone .
`` Hello ?
Richard ?
The managing director needs to know when he 'll have the report . ''
Richard looked at his watch .
`` Five minutes , Sylvia .
It 's almost wrapped up .
I just have to attach the P and L projection . ''
`` Thanks , Dick .
I 'll come down for it . ''
Sylvia was , as she liked to explain , `` the MD 's PA , '' and she moved in an atmosphere of crisp efficiency .
He thumbed the speakerphone off ; it rang again , immediately .
`` Richard , '' said the speaker , with Jessica 's voice , `` it 's Jessica .
You have n't forgotten , have you ? ''
`` Forgotten ? ''
He tried to remember what he could have forgotten .
He looked at Jessica 's photograph for inspiration and found all the inspiration he could have needed in the shape of a yellow Post-it note stuck to her forehead .
`` Richard ?
Typed upon the paper was a brief description of the previous two years for Gordon and Belinda .
It had not been a good two years , according to the typed sheet .
Six months after they were married , Belinda had been bitten in the cheek by a Pekingese , so badly that the cheek needed to be stitched back together .
It had left a nasty scar .
Worse than that , nerves had been damaged , and she had begun to drink , perhaps to numb the pain .
She suspected that Gordon was revolted by her face , while the new baby , it said , was a desperate attempt to glue the couple together .
`` Why would they say this ? ''
she asked .
`` They ? ''
`` Whoever wrote this horrid thing . ''
She ran a finger across her cheek : it was unblemished and unmarked .
She was a very beautiful young woman , although she looked tired and fragile now .
`` How do you know it 's a 'they ' ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' she said , transferring the baby to her left breast .
`` It seems a sort of 'they'-ish thing to do .
To write that and to swap it for the old one and to wait until one of us read it ... Come on , little Melanie , there you go , that 's such a fine girl ... `` '' Shall I throw it away ? ''
`` Yes .
No .
I do n't know .
I think ... `` She stroked the baby 's forehead .
`` Hold on to it , '' she said .
`` We might need it for evidence .
I wonder if it was something Al organized . ''
Al was Gordon 's youngest brother .
Gordon put the paper back into the envelope , and he put the envelope back into the box file , which was pushed under the bed and , more or less , forgotten .
Neither of them got much sleep for the next few months , what with the nightly feeds and the continual crying , for Melanie was a colicky baby .
The box file stayed under the bed .
And then Gordon was offered a job in Preston , several hundred miles north , and since Belinda was on leave from her job and had no immediate plans to go back to work , she found the idea rather attractive .
So they moved .
They found a terraced house on a cobbled street , high and old and deep .
Belinda filled in from time to time at a local vet 's , seeing small animals and housepets .
When Melanie was eighteen months old , Belinda gave birth to a son , whom they called Kevin after Gordon 's late grandfather .
Gordon was made a full partner in the firm of architects .
When Kevin began to go to kindergarten , Belinda went back to work .
The box file was never lost .
It was in one of the spare rooms at the top of the house , beneath a teetering pile of copies of The Architect 's Journal and Architectural Review .
Belinda thought about the box file , and what it contained , from time to time , and , one night when Gordon was in Scotland overnight consulting on the remodeling of an ancestral home , she did more than think .
Both of the children were asleep .
Belinda went up the stairs into the undecorated part of the house .
She moved the magazines and opened the box , which ( where it had not been covered by magazines ) was thick with two years of undisturbed dust .
The envelope still said Gordon and Belinda 's Marriage on it , and Belinda honestly did not know if it had ever said anything else .
She took out the paper from the envelope , and she read it .
And then she put it away , and sat there , at the top of the house , feeling shaken and sick .
According to the neatly typed message , Kevin , her second child , had not been born ; the baby had been miscarried at five months .
Since then Belinda had been suffering from frequent attacks of bleak , black depression .
Gordon was home rarely , it said , because he was conducting a rather miserable affair with the senior partner in his company , a striking but nervous woman ten years his senior .
Belinda was drinking more , and affecting high collars and scarves to hide the spiderweb scar upon her cheek .
She and Gordon spoke little , except to argue the small and petty arguments of those who fear the big arguments , knowing that the only things that were left to be said were too huge to be said without destroying both their lives .
Belinda said nothing about the latest version of Gordon and Belinda 's Marriage to Gordon .
However , he read it himself , or something quite like it , several months later , when Belinda 's mother fell ill , and Belinda went south for a week to help look after her .
On the sheet of paper that Gordon took out of the envelope was a portrait of a marriage similar to the one that Belinda had read , although , at present , his affair with his boss had ended badly , and his job was now in peril .
Gordon rather liked his boss , but could not imagine himself ever becoming romantically involved with her .
He was enjoying his job , although he wanted something that would challenge him more than it did .
Belinda 's mother improved , and Belinda came home again within the week .
Her husband and children were relieved and delighted to see her .
It was Christmas Eve before Gordon spoke to Belinda about the envelope .
`` You 've looked at it too , have n't you ? ''
They had crept into the children 's bedrooms earlier that evening and filled the hanging Christmas stockings .
Gordon had felt euphoric as he had walked through the house , as he stood beside his children 's beds , but it was a euphoria tinged with a profound sorrow : the knowledge that such moments of complete happiness could not last ; that one could not stop Time .
Belinda knew what he was talking about .
`` Yes , '' she said , `` I 've read it . ''
`` What do you think ? ''
`` Well , '' she said .
`` I do n't think it 's a joke anymore .
Not even a sick joke . ''
`` Mm , '' he said .
`` Then what is it ? ''
They sat in the living room at the front of the house with the lights dimmed , and the log burning on the bed of coals cast flickering orange and yellow light about the room .
`` I think it really is a wedding present , '' she told him .
`` It 's the marriage that we are n't having .
The bad things are happening there , on the page , not here , in our lives .
Instead of living it , we are reading it , knowing it could have gone that way and also that it never did . ''
`` You 're saying it 's magic , then ? ''
He would not have said it aloud , but it was Christmas Eve , and the lights were down .
`` I do n't believe in magic , '' she said , flatly .
`` It 's a wedding present .
And I think we should make sure it 's kept safe . ''
On Boxing Day she moved the envelope from the box file to her jewelry drawer , which she kept locked , where it lay flat beneath her necklaces and rings , her bracelets and her brooches .
Spring became summer .
Winter became spring .
Gordon was exhausted .
By day he worked for clients , designing , and liaising with builders and contractors ; by night he would sit up late , working for himself , designing museums and galleries and public buildings for competitions .
Sometimes his designs received honorable mentions , and were reproduced in architectural journals .
Belinda was doing more large animal work , which she enjoyed , visiting farmers and inspecting and treating horses , sheep , and cows .
Sometimes she would bring the children with her on her rounds .
Her mobile phone rang when she was in a paddock trying to examine a pregnant goat who had , it turned out , no desire to be caught , let alone examined .
She retired from the battle , leaving the goat glaring at her from across the field , and thumbed the phone open .
`` Yes ? ''
`` Guess what ? ''
`` Hello darling .
Um .
You 've won the lottery ? ''
`` Nope .
Close , though .
My design for the British Heritage Museum has made the short list .
I 'm up against some pretty stiff contenders , though .
But I 'm on the short list . ''
`` That 's wonderful ! ''
`` I 've spoken to Mrs. Fulbright and she 's going to have Sonja baby-sit for us tonight .
We 're celebrating . ''
The kids did n't complain .
That was that .
Out of his system .
He remembered-he saw himself-attacking the meat , hanging over the sink .
He closed his eyes , snapped them shut-the idea , the thought , of being caught like that .
By a child , by his wife .
The end of his life .
He 'd killed it-the urge .
But it came back , days later .
And he killed it again .
The fridge again-lamb chops this time .
He sent his hand in over the chops , and grabbed a packet of chicken br**sts , one of those polystyrene trays , wrapped in cling -- lm .
He put a finger through the film , pulled it away .
He slid the br**sts onto a plate-and drank the pink , the near-white blood .
He downed it , off the tray .
And vomited .
Cured .
Sickened-revolted .
Never again .
He stayed home from work the next day .
Vera felt his forehead .
-Maybe it 's the swine flu .
-Chicken pox , he said .
You 're such a messer .
-You must have had the chicken pox when you were a boy , she said.-Did you ?
-I think so , he said .
She looked worried .
-It can make adult males sterile , she said .
-I had a vasectomy , he told her.-Three years ago .
-I forgot , she said .
-I did n't .
But he was cured ; he 'd sorted himself out .
The thought , the memory-the taste of the chicken blood , the polystyrene tray-it had him retching all day .
He would n't let it go .
He tortured himself until he knew he was fixed .
It was iron he was after .
He decided that after he 'd done a bit of Googling when he went back to work .
It made sense ; it was fresh air across his face .
Something about the taste , even the look , of the cow 's deep red blood-it was metal , rusty .
That was what he 'd craved , the iron , the metal .
He 'd been looking pale ; he 'd been falling asleep in front of the telly , like an old man .
Anaemia .
Iron was all he needed .
So he bought himself a carton of grapefruit juice-he knew the kids would never touch it-and he went into a chemist on his way home from work , for iron tablets .
He regretted it when the woman behind the counter looked at him over her specs and asked him if they were for his wife .
-We share them , he said .
She was n't moving .
-I 'd need to see a letter from your GP , she said .
-For iron ?
-Yes .
He bought condoms and throat lozenges , and left .
By the time he got home he knew his iron theory was shite and he 'd pushed the grapefruit juice into a hedge , with the condoms .
The kids were right ; grapefruit juice was disgusting .
There was nothing wrong with him , except he wanted to drink blood .
He had kids .
That was the point .
A boy and a girl .
He had a family , a wife he loved , a job he tolerated .
He worked in one of the banks , not high enough up to qualify for one of the mad bonuses they 'd been handing out in the boom days , but high enough to have his family held hostage while he went to the bank with one of the bad guys and opened the safe-although that event had never occurred .
The point was , he was normal .
He was normal .
He took a fillet steak into the gents ' toilet at work , demolished it , and tried to flush the plastic bag down the toilet .
But it stayed there like a parachute , on top of the water .
He fished it out and put it in his pocket .
He checked his shirt and tie in the mirror , even though he 'd been careful not to let himself get carried away as he went at the meat in the cubicle .
He was clean , spotless , his normal self .
He checked his teeth for strings of flesh , put his face right up to the mirror .
He was grand .
He went back to his desk and ate his lunch with his colleagues , a sandwich he 'd made himself that morning , avocado and tomato-no recession in his fridge .
He felt good , he felt great .
He was controlling it , feeding it .
He was his own doctor , in very good hands .
He 'd soon be ironed up and back to his even more normal self .
So he was quite surprised when he went over the wall , even as he went over .
What the f**k am I doing ?
He knew exactly what he was doing .
He was going after the next-door neighbours ' recession hens .
At three in the morning .
He was going to bite the head off one of them .
He 'd seen the hens-he was n't sure if you called them hens or chickens-from one of the upstairs windows .
He saw them every night when he was closing his daughter 's curtains , after he 'd read to her .
( See ?
He 's normal . )
There were three of them , scrabbling around in the garden .
He hated them , the whole idea of them .
The world economy wobbled and the middle classes immediately started growing their own spuds and carrots , buying their own chickens , and denying they had property portfolios in Eastern Europe .
And they stopped talking to him because he 'd become the enemy , and evil , because he worked in a bank .
The shiftless bitch next door could pretend she was busy all day looking after the hens .
Well , she 'd have one less to look after , because he was over the wall .
He 'd landed neatly and quietly-he was fit ; he played football-and he was homing in on the hens .
He knew what he was up to .
He was hoping a light would go on , upstairs-or better , downstairs-or next door , in his own house .
Frighten the shite out of him , send him scrambling back over the wall .
I was just looking to see if I could see the space shuttle .
It 's supposed to be coming over Ireland tonight .
He 'd bluff his way out of it-Although it wo n't be stopping-while his heart thumped away at his ribs .
It would sort him out for another few days , a week ; it would get him over the weekend .
But no light went on .
And the chickens cluck-clucked : We 're over here .
I had a painted-on moustache .
My dad took me to school himself that day .
I walked in so proudly .
The other kids just screamed and pointed , and somewhere in there I locked myself in a cubicle in the boys ' room and cried .
They would n't let me go home to change .
I went through the day like that .
It was Hell . ''
`` You should have made something up , '' said Rosie .
`` You were going to a costume party afterwards or something .
Or just told them the truth . ''
`` Yeah , '' said Fat Charlie meaningfully and gloomily , remembering .
`` What did your dad say , when you got home ? ''
`` Oh , he hooted with laughter .
Chuckled and chortled and , and chittered and all that .
Then he told me that maybe they did n't do that Presidents ' Day stuff anymore .
Now , why did n't we go down to the beach together and look for mermaids ? ''
`` Look for - mermaids ? ''
'There ! '
he 'd say .
'Did you see her ?
She was a big ol ' redhead , with a green tail . '
And I looked , and I looked , but I never did . ''
He shook his head .
Then he took a handful of mixed nuts from the bowl on the table and began to toss them into his mouth , chomping down on them as if each nut was a twenty-year-old indignity that could never be erased .
`` Well , '' said Rosie , brightly , `` I think he sounds lovely , a real character !
We have to get him to come over for the wedding .
He 'd be the life and soul of the party . ''
Which , Fat Charlie explained , after briefly choking on a Brazil nut , was really the last thing you wanted at your wedding , after all , was n't it , your father turning up and being the life and soul of the party ?
He said that his father was , he had no doubt , still the most embarrassing person on God 's Green Earth .
He added that he was perfectly happy not to have seen the old goat for several years , and that the best thing his mother ever did was to leave his father and come to England to stay with her Aunt Alanna .
He buttressed this by stating categorically that he was damned , double-damned , and quite possibly even thrice-damned if he was going to invite his father .
In fact , said Fat Charlie in closing , the best thing about getting married was not having to invite his dad to their wedding .
And then Fat Charlie saw the expression on Rosie 's face and the icy glint in her normally friendly eyes , and he corrected himself hurriedly , explaining that he meant the second-best , but it was already much too late .
`` You 'll just have to get used to the idea , '' said Rosie .
`` After all , a wedding is a marvelous opportunity for mending fences and building bridges .
It 's your opportunity to show him that there are no hard feelings . ''
`` But there are hard feelings , '' said Fat Charlie .
`` Lots . ''
`` Do you have an address for him ? ''
asked Rosie .
`` Or a phone number ?
You probably ought to phone him .
A letter 's a bit impersonal when your only son is getting married- you are his only son , are n't you ?
Does he have e-mail ? ''
`` Yes .
I 'm his only son .
I have no idea if he has e-mail or not .
Probably not , '' said Fat Charlie .
Letters were good things , he thought .
They could get lost in the post for a start .
`` Well , you must have an address or a phone number . ''
`` I do n't , '' said Fat Charlie , honestly .
Maybe his father had moved away .
He could have left Florida and gone somewhere they did n't have telephones .
Or addresses .
`` Well , '' said Rosie , sharply , `` who does ? ''
`` Mrs. Higgler , '' said Fat Charlie , and all the fight went out of him .
Rosie smiled sweetly .
`` And who is Mrs .
Higgler ? ''
she asked .
`` Friend of the family , '' said Fat Charlie .
`` When I was growing up , she used to live next door . ''
He had spoken to Mrs. Higgler several years earlier , when his mother was dying .
He had , at his mother 's request , telephoned Mrs. Higgler to pass on the message to Fat Charlie 's father , and to tell him to get in touch .
And several days later there had been a message on Fat Charlie 's answering machine , left while he was at work , in a voice that was unmistakably his father 's , even if it did sound rather older and a little drunk .
His father said that it was not a good time , and that business affairs would be keeping him in America .
And then he added that , for everything , Fat Charlie 's mother was a damn fine woman .
Several days later a vase of assorted flowers had been delivered to the hospital ward .
Fat Charlie 's mother had snorted when she read the card .
`` Thinks he can get around me that easily ? ''
she said .
`` He 's got another think coming , I can tell you that . ''
But she had had the nurse put the flowers in a place of honor by her bed and , several times since , had asked Fat Charlie if he had heard anything about his father coming and visiting her before it was all over .
Fat Charlie said he had n't .
He grew to hate the question , and his answer , and the expression on her face when he told her that , no , his father was n't coming .
The worst day , in Fat Charlie 's opinion , was the day that the doctor , a gruff little man , had taken Fat Charlie aside and told him that it would not be long now , that his mother was fading fast , and it had become a matter of keeping her comfortable until the end .
Fat Charlie had nodded , and gone in to his mother .
The noise was getting louder .
For one moment Fat Charlie thought it might be terrorists .
His mother , though , smiled weakly at the cacophony .
`` Yellow bird , '' she whispered .
`` What ? ''
said Fat Charlie , scared that she had stopped making sense. ''
'Yellow Bird , ' `` she said , louder and more firmly .
`` It 's what they 're playing . ''
Fat Charlie went to the door , and looked out .
Coming down the hospital corridor , ignoring the protests of nurses , the stares of patients in pajamas and of their families , was what appeared to be a very small New Orleans jazz band .
There was a saxophone and a sousaphone and a trumpet .
There was an enormous man with what looked like a double bass strung around his neck .
There was a man with a bass drum , which he banged .
And at the head of the pack , in a smart checked suit , wearing a fedora hat and lemon yellow gloves , came Fat Charlie 's father .
He played no instrument but was doing a soft-shoe-shuffle along the polished linoleum of the hospital floor , lifting his hat to each of the medical staff in turn , shaking hands with anyone who got close enough to talk or to attempt to complain .
Fat Charlie bit his lip , and prayed to anyone who might be listening that the earth would open and swallow him up or , failing that , that he might suffer a brief , merciful and entirely fatal heart attack .
No such luck .
He remained among the living , the brass band kept coming , his father kept dancing and shaking hands and smiling .
If there is any justice in the world , thought Fat Charlie , my father will keep going down the corridor , and he 'll go straight past us and into the genito-urinary department ; however , there was no justice , and his father reached the door of the oncology ward and stopped .
`` Fat Charlie , '' he said , loudly enough that everyone in the ward - on that floor - in the hospital - was able to comprehend that this was someone who knew Fat Charlie .
A brilliant smile bloomed , and her bouncing started up again .
`` Please , Alice .
You got ta talk to her now .
I do n't want to be late , and if Dad agrees we 'll need to leave soon so I can warm up on stage with the other girls .
Please .
Nooow . ''
I sat up and placed the daisies around her neck .
`` You know the likelihood of success is pretty low , right ? ''
A cardinal rule in the Bell household : you did not leave the house if you could n't return before dark .
Here , Dad had worked up `` reinforcements '' against the monsters , ensuring none of them could get in .
After dark , well , you stayed put .
Anyone out in the big bad world was without any type of protection and considered open season .
My father 's paranoia and delusion had caused me to miss numerous school activities and countless sporting events .
I 'd never even been on a date .
Yes , I could have gone on a weekend lunch date and other craptasticly lame things like that , but honestly ?
I had no desire for a boyfriend .
I never wanted to have to explain that my dad was certifiable , or that he sometimes locked us in the `` special '' basement he 'd built as added protection from a boogeyman that did not exist .
Yeah , just peachy .
Em threw her arms around me .
`` You can do it , I know you can .
You can do anything ! ''
Her faith in me ... so humbling .
`` I 'll do my best . ''
`` Your best is- Oh , ick ! ''
Face scrunched with horror , she jumped as far away from me as she could get .
`` You 're all gross and wet , and you made me all gross and wet . ''
Laughing , I lunged for her .
She squealed and darted off .
I 'd run the hose over myself about half an hour ago , hoping to cool down .
Not that I 'd tell her .
The fun of sibling torture , and all that .
`` Stay out here , okay ? ''
Mom would say something that would hurt her feelings , and I 'd say something to make her feel bad for asking me to do this , and she 'd cry .
I hated when she cried .
`` Sure , sure , '' she said , palms up in a gesture of innocence .
Like I was buying that hasty assurance .
She planned to follow me and listen , no question .
Girl was devious like that .
`` Promise me . ''
`` I ca n't believe you 'd doubt me . ''
A delicate hand fluttered over her heart .
`` That hurts , Alice .
That really hurts . ''
`` First , major congrats .
Your acting has improved tremendously , '' I said with a round of applause .
`` Second , say the words or I 'll return to working on a tan I 'll never achieve . ''
Grinning , she rose on her toes , stretched out her arms and slowly spun on one leg .
The sun chose that moment to toss out an amber ray , creating the perfect spotlight for her perfect pirouette .
`` Okay , okay .
I promise .
Happy now ? ''
`` Sublimely . ''
She might be devious , but she never broke a promise .
`` Watch me pretend I know what that means . ''
`` It means-oh , never mind . ''
I was stalling , and I knew it .
`` I 'm going . ''
With all the enthusiasm of a firing squad candidate , I stood and turned toward our house , a two-story my dad had built in the prime of his construction days , with brown brick on the bottom and brown-and-white-striped wood on the top .
Kind of boxy , amazingly average and absolutely , one hundred percent forgettable .
But then , that 's what he 'd been going for , he 'd said .
My flip-flops clapped against the ground , creating a mantra inside my head .
Do n't .
Fail .
Do n't .
Fail .
Finally I stood at the glass doors that led to our kitchen and spotted my mom , bustling from the sink to the stove and back again .
I watched her , a bit sick to my stomach .
Do n't be a wuss .
You can do this .
I pushed my way inside .
Garlic , butter and tomato paste scented the air .
`` Hey , '' I said , and hoped I had n't cringed .
Mom glanced up from the steaming strainer of noodles and smiled .
`` Hey , baby .
Coming in for good , or just taking a break ? ''
`` Break . ''
The forced incarceration at night drove me to spend as much time as possible outside during daylight hours , whether I burned to lobster-red or not .
`` Well , your timing 's great .
The spaghetti 's almost done . ''
`` Yeah , okay , good . ''
During the summer months , we ate dinner at five sharp .
Winter , we switched it up to four .
That way , no matter the season , we could be in our rooms and safe before sunset .
The walls were reinforced with some kind of steel , and the doors and locks were impenetrable .
And yes , those things made our futuristic dungeon known as `` the basement '' overkill , but you try reasoning with a crazy person .
Just do it .
Just say it .
`` So , um , yeah . ''
I shifted from one foot to the other .
`` Today 's my birthday . ''
Her jaw dropped , her cheeks bleaching of color .
`` Oh ... baby .
I 'm so sorry .
I did n't mean ...
I should have remembered ... I even made myself notes .
Happy birthday , '' she finished lamely .
She looked around , as if hoping a present would somehow appear via the force of her will .
`` I feel terrible . ''
`` Do n't worry about it . ''
`` I 'll do something to make this up to you , I swear . ''
`` I suspected it would happen , but I was n't ready for the reality of it . ''
Cole 's shirt was the next to go .
The blade-sharp cut of his body always stole my breath , and now was no exception , regardless of the horror of our conversation .
I drank him in-the delightfully wicked nipple ring , the sinewy chest and washboard abs covered with a plethora of tattoos .
Every design , every word , meant something to him , from the names of the friends he 'd lost in the war to the depiction of the grim reaper 's scythe .
Because that was what he was .
A zombie killer .
He was total bad boy-the dangerous guy monsters feared finding in their closets .
And he was closing the distance between us .
I buzzed with anticipation , expecting him to draw me into his arms .
Instead , he bypassed me to fall onto the bed and cover his face with scabbed hands .
`` I ashed him tonight .
Ended him forever . ''
`` I 'm so sorry . ''
I eased beside him and brushed my fingers over his thigh , offering what comfort I could .
I knew he understood that he had n't actually ashed Haun , or even the ghost of Haun .
The creature he 'd fought had n't had Haun 's memories or his personality .
It had had his face and nothing more .
His body had simply been a shell for unending hunger and malevolence .
`` You had to do it , '' I added .
`` If you 'd let him go , he would have come back for you and our friends , and he would have done his best to destroy us . ''
`` I know , but that does n't make it any easier . ''
He released a shuddering sigh .
I looked him over more intently .
He had angry cuts on his arms , chest and stomach .
Zombies were spirits , the source of life-or afterlife in their case-and had to be fought by other spirits .
That was why , to engage , we had to force ours out of our bodies , like a hand being pulled out of glove .
And yet , even though we left our bodies behind , frozen in place , the two were still connected .
Whatever injury one received , the other received , as well .
I padded to the bathroom , wet several washrags and grabbed a tube of antibiotic cream .
`` Tomorrow I start training again , '' I said as I tended him , distracting us both .
He glared up at me through lashes so thick and black he looked as if he wore eyeliner .
`` Tomorrow 's Halloween .
All of us have the day and night off .
And by the way , I 'm taking you to a costume party at the club .
I 'm thinking we 'll stick with the whole battered and bruised theme and go as a naughty nurse and even naughtier patient . ''
My first outing in weeks would be a date with Cole .
Yes , please .
`` I think you 'll make a very sexy naughty nurse . ''
`` I know , '' he said without missing a beat .
`` Just wait till you see my dress .
Slutty does n't even begin to describe .
And you will , of course , require a sponge bath . ''
Do n't laugh .
`` Promises , promises . ''
I tsked , then tried to continue more seriously .
`` But I never mentioned hunting . ''
Too many people would be out , and some would be dressed as zombies .
At first glance , we might not be able to tell the real deal from the fake .
`` I only mentioned training .
You are working out tomorrow morning , are n't you ? ''
He always did .
He ignored my question , saying , `` You 're not ready . ''
`` No , you 're not ready for me to be ready , but it 's happening whether you like it or not . ''
He scowled at me , dark and dangerous .
`` Is that so ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Not many people stood up to Cole Holland .
Everyone at our school considered him a full-blown predator , more animal than human .
Feral .
Dangerous .
They were n't wrong .
Cole would n't hesitate to tear into someone-anyone-for the slightest offense .
Except me .
I could do what I wanted , say what I wanted , and he was charmed .
Even when he was scowling .
And it was strange , definitely something I was n't used to-having power over someone else-but I 'd be lying if I claimed not to like it .
`` Two problems with your plan , '' he said .
`` One , you do n't have a key to the gym .
And two , there 's a good chance your instructor will suddenly become unreachable . ''
Since he was my instructor , I took his words as the gentle threat they were and sighed .
When I 'd first joined his group , he 'd thrown me into the thick of battle without hesitation .
I think he 'd trusted his ability to protect me from any kind of threat more than he 'd trusted my skills .
Then I 'd proved myself and he 'd backed off .
Then he 'd accidentally stabbed me .
Yep .
Him .
He 'd aimed for the zombie snarling and biting at him ; I 'd stepped in to help , and , with a single touch , ashed the only thing shielding my body from his strike .
Cole had yet to forgive himself .
Maybe that was why he 'd built a wall .
Maybe he needed a reminder of just how wily I could be .
`` Cole , '' I said huskily , and his eyelids lowered to half-mast .
`` Yes , Ali . ''
`` This . ''
A slow smile spread as I circled my hands around his ankles-and jerked .
He slid off the bed and thumped to the floor .
`` What the hell ? ''
I leaped on top of him , pinning his shoulders with my knees .
The action caused the scar on my stomach to throb , but I masked my wince with another smile .
`` What are you going to do now , Mr .
Holland ? ''
He watched me intently , amusement darkening his irises .
`` I think I 'll just enjoy the view . ''
He gripped me by the waist , squeezed just enough to make sure he had my full attention .
`` From this angle , I can see your- '' Choking back a laugh , I took a swing at him .
`` Shorts , '' he finished , catching my hand just before impact .
I was n't given the chance to tug free .
He rolled me over , stretched my arms over my head and held me down .
Tricky slayer .
`` What are you going to do now , Miss Bell ? ''
Pain .
I had n't known pain in quite a long time .
My last memory of it was when I had been working at a friend 's house , cutting carpet , and nearly severed my arm off .
I looked down at my translucent arm now .
Although nearly imperceptible , the scar was still there-or at least the ghostly hint of it .
Still cursing under his breath , Jerrold turned back to his paper .
So did I .
He scanned the major headlines , and I scanned them along with him .
After all , he was my hands in this situation .
He read through some local Los Angeles news , mostly political stuff that would have bored me to tears had I tears to be bored with .
I glanced over at his coffee while he read , trying to remember what it tasted like .
I think I remembered .
I think .
Hot , roasted , bitter , and sweet .
I knew the words , but I was having a hard time recalling the actual flavor .
That scared me .
Jerrold turned the page .
As he did so , something immediately caught my eye ; luckily , it caught his eye , too .
A piano teacher had been murdered at St. Luke 's , a converted monastery that was now being used as a Catholic church and school .
Lucy Randolph was eighty-six years old and just three days shy of celebrating her sixtieth anniversary with her husband .
I had known Mrs. Randolph .
In fact , she had been my own music teacher back when I was a student at St. Luke 's .
She had been kind to a fault , a source of inspiration and joy to her students , and especially to me .
And now , according to the report , someone had strangled her , leaving her for dead on the very piano she had taught on .
Perhaps the very same piano I had been taught on .
Damn .
Jerrold clucked his tongue and shook his head and moved on to the next page , but I had seen enough .
I stepped away .
`` You 're still young , Jerrold , '' I said to him .
`` Lose fifteen pounds and find someone special-and ditch the gambling . ''
As I spoke , the small hairs on the back of his neck stood up and his aura shifted toward me .
He shivered unconsciously and turned the page .
3 We were in Pauline 's apartment .
She was drinking an apple martini and I was n't , which was a damn shame .
At the moment , I was sitting in an old wingback chair , and she was on the couch , one bare foot up on a hand-painted coffee table that could have doubled as a modern piece of abstract art .
`` If you ever need any extra money , '' I said , `` you could always sell your coffee table on eBay . ''
`` It 's not for sale , '' she said .
`` Ever . ''
`` What if you were homeless and living on the streets and needed money ? ''
`` Then I would be homeless and living on the streets with the world 's most bitchin ' hand-painted coffee table . ''
Her name was Pauline , and she was my best-and only-friend .
She was also a world-famous medium .
She could hear me , see me , and sometimes even touch me .
Hell , she could even read my thoughts , which was a bit disconcerting for me .
She was a full-figured woman , with perhaps the most beautiful face I had ever seen .
She often wore her long brown hair haphazardly , a look that would surely have your average California girl running back to the bathroom mirror .
Pauline was not your average California girl .
She was n't your average girl by any definition , spending as much of her time in the world of the dead as in the world of the living .
Luckily , she just so happened to live in the very building I was presently haunting .
`` Yeah , lucky me , '' said Pauline , picking up on my thoughts .
She did her readings out of a small office near downtown Los Angeles , usually working with just one or two clients a day .
Some of her sessions lasted longer than others , and tonight she was home later than usual , hitting the booze hard , as she often did .
I would n't call her a drunk , but she was damn close to being one .
`` I 'm not a drunk , '' Pauline said absently , reading my thoughts again .
`` I can stop anytime I want .
The booze just helps me ... release . ''
`` Release ? ''
I asked .
`` Yeah , to forget .
To unwind .
To un-everything . ''
`` You should probably not drink so much , '' I said .
She regarded me over her martini glass .
Her eyes were bloodshot .
Her face gleamed with a fine film of sweat .
She was n't as attractive when she was drunk .
`` Thanks , '' she said sarcastically .
`` And do you even remember what it 's like being drunk ? ''
I thought about that .
`` A little .
And that was below the belt . ''
`` Do you even have a belt ? ''
I looked down at my slightly glowing , ethereal body .
Hell , even my clothing glowed .
It was the same clothing I had been wearing on the night I was murdered two years ago : a white T-shirt and long red basketball shorts , my usual sleeping garb .
I was barefoot , and I suspected my hair was a mess , since I had been shot to death in my sleep .
Dotting my body were the various bloody holes where the bullets had long ago entered my living flesh .
`` No belt , '' I said .
`` Then again , no shoes , either . ''
She laughed , which caused some of her martini to slosh over the rim .
She cursed and licked her fingers like a true alcoholic .
`` Oh , shut up , '' she said .
`` Waste not , want not , '' I said .
She glared at me some more as she took a long pull on her drink .
When she set it down , she missed the center of the cork coaster by about three inches .
Now part of the glass sat askew on the edge of the coaster , and the whole thing looked like it might tip over .
She did n't notice or care .
Pauline worked with spirits all day .
Early on , she had tried her best to ignore my presence .
But I knew she could see me , so I pursued her relentlessly until she finally acknowledged my existence .
`` And now I ca n't get rid of you , '' she said .
`` You love me , '' I said .
`` Admit it . ''
`` Yeah , '' she said , `` I do .
Call me an idiot , but I do . ''
`` Idiot , '' I said .
`` Besides , I 'm different than those other ghosts . ''
`` Yeah ?
How so ? ''
`` I 'm a ghost on a mission . ''
Mike replied first , changing the subject , as he often did when things became too emotional .
`` We 've got radios , right ?
Walkie-talkies ? ''
He glanced at Carla , the cop .
She had been close to being Carla , Jack 's girlfriend .
But this ai n't the optimum time for romance .
That can wait , Jack thought .
Maybe permanently .
`` Yeah . ''
She rubbed her eyes .
`` I 've got some .
They 're in the office . ''
`` How many ? ''
`` Three .
There 's another one in my patrol car . ''
`` We can do with three for now , I think , '' Mike said .
None of them wanted to go outside , despite the daylight .
`` How about if Joe and I start a security sweep ?
We can start from the roof and work our way down .
We can share a radio , if we stay together . ''
`` We 'd better stay together .
Two by two is a lot safer , '' Joe said .
`` Carla , can you cover them ? ''
Jack asked .
`` Of course , but- '' '' Good .
Use one of the radios and I 'll stay behind with Anna and Jared . ''
Jack paused .
`` I ca n't leave Anna alone for a minute .
Not now- '' Carla shook her head .
`` No , Jack .
Let me stay behind with her . ''
`` But I want to be near her in case ... . '' '' I know , '' she said softly `` But you 're too close to this right now , Jack .
Let me stay .
You need to find something to take your mind off Anna . ''
`` I need what ?
Take my mind off my daughter ? ! ''
Jack could n't help the icy tone that frosted his words .
Carla raised her hand in peace .
`` Facing you is probably going to be the most difficult thing for her .
I know you 're heartbroken .
We all are .
But right now , we need to take care of business .
And our first priority , for the entire group , is security . ''
Jack could n't believe what he was hearing .
Especially when his brother said , `` She 's right , Jack .
Let Jared work his magic on Anna .
She 'll come out eventually .
And those two could n't be in better hands than Carla 's right now . ''
`` I 'm her father , goddammit ! ''
`` I know , '' said Joe , lowering his tone .
`` And , I 'm her uncle .
I 'm in no hurry to lose her either .
You and I taking care of Anna will be next on the list once we secure the premises . ''
* * * The security sweep took longer than anticipated .
They began on the roof , armed with loaded weapons and padlocks .
The roof held more crazies than they 'd expected .
But the infected were sitting ducks .
Shooting them and getting their bodies out of the way took a while .
The group was relieved to find the huge telescope escaped damage .
Internationally famous , perhaps there would be a use for it again some day .
They hoped so .
They closed and padlocked the telescope 's door to keep the smarter zombies from vandalizing it .
Then they made their way down through three levels that had once hosted hundreds of visitors daily .
Before the outbreak , of course .
Now , the only visitors to Griffith Observatory were the undead kind .
Jack hated killing , even in the military , but this ... this was so alien and absurd .
The emotions involved in taking another 's life felt completely different .
The worst aspect of killing zombies was that there was no real chain of command , or support , or anything but flying by the seats of their pants , knowing they could join them at any moment .
Completely on their own and reliant on one another .
In considering every dire scenario , though , Jack was glad Carla had his back .
God , if she became infected , what in the hell would he do ?
Drown her , maybe ?
Or , cure her ? ...
Well , no way in hell I 'm losing her .
Or Anna .
Or anyone else I give a damn about .
During the security sweep , they found a few open windows and doors .
Hard to understand how this monumental facility had been left unsecured .
Then again , the last security shift was likely frightened away without locking up .
Perhaps infected .
Jack hated to think they were killing people like them .
But , the law of the moment was 'Kill or be killed ' .
And they were n't people .
Not any more .
The world had gone to hell in a hand basket and they were its riders .
But while they took down the infected here at the observatory , were they also destroying the brightest minds ?
A hand grasped Jack 's shoulder and he whirled around , ready to shoot .
`` Whoa , cowboy . ''
Mike stepped back .
`` It 's just me . ''
Jack lowered his gun .
`` Sorry . ''
`` We 're all a little spooked . ''
Jack nodded .
`` I think we 're pretty much done with the sweep . ''
They had reached the basement , below the lowest public level .
It was pretty dark .
The only light shone from the opened doors atop the stairs .
They had Carla 's flashlight , but used it sparingly to preserve the batteries .
Mike was soaked with sweat .
I contemplated the bluish veins creeping up from my hand to my arm , probably toward my heart .
I did n't care .
My head ached , my body ached , and I was hungry .
I was very , very angry .
Mostly , I strove for emotional control .
`` We 're losing him , '' Jared said from seemingly afar .
`` No , he 'll be okay , '' Anna replied , equally far away .
As far as I knew , my brother Joe , who had been infected along with Mike , was still out there somewhere , getting sicker , but gaining the enormous physical strength the infection presented after a period of severe illness , all while slowly going insane .
Before Mike was `` cured , '' he had actually been obsessed with feeding on human flesh .
All of these thoughts went through my feverish mind in a haze .
I tried to keep focused , to keep caring .
I cared , but I did n't care , too .
So weird .
I wanted so desperately to keep my daughter safe .
And I cared for Carla , too .
Who else ?
Jared , and even Mike , although just hours ago , he 'd wanted to kill Anna .
And , of course , I cared for my little brother , Joey .
I did n't know what to do and I was so sick that I almost did n't give a damn .
Almost .
But I had to give a damn .
God , I wanted to live , but at the same time , I was losing ... interest .
Jesus .
`` Dad , I 'm counting on you to keep it together , '' Anna said .
`` We all are . ''
I tried to hang onto that more than anything else .
`` Jack , are you hungry ? ''
Carla asked .
I nodded .
The growing fatigue , I knew , could only be cured by feeding .
Feeding on ... human flesh .
To be more specific , gray matter .
Brains .
Lord help me .
`` Want an ice cream sandwich ? ''
Anna asked me .
`` We have lots . ''
I shook my head , gathered my thoughts .
Or tried to .
Mostly , my thoughts were on the gray stuff .
I looked absently down at my hand .
It had been cut a couple of days ago by a punch I 'd delivered to my own brother .
I was guessing this infection , or disease , was spread through blood contact .
I did n't even want to risk touching anyone .
Mike was absolutely convinced he was cured .
That meant ... what ?
I could n't remember .
`` Hey , bro , come back to us , '' Mike said .
His voice came from so far away .
`` You got better , '' I heard Anna say to Mike .
`` Does he have to get better the same way ? ''
`` I 'm fresh out of alternate ideas , '' Mike replied and Anna gave a little cry .
She could have been weeping from atop one of the distant hills behind us , she sounded so far away .
The voices continued , all sounding distant , hollow , empty .
At least , to my ears .
`` Let 's weigh our options , '' said Carla , `` and be very cautious with our actions . ''
`` I ca n't bear this , '' my daughter said .
Jared , her boyfriend , held her hand tightly .
I could barely pay attention to the conversation .
My head ached so viciously that I could n't think of much else but the thump-thump of it all .
I 'm fucked , I thought .
I was also thirsty as hell but could no longer drink any form of liquid .
I vaguely realized that I should be seriously dehydrated by now .
Most of all , my hand hurt like someone was driving a railroad spike through it , although the cold pack had alleviated some of the pain .
I looked at Carla and reason left my mind .
I wanted her .
Not sexually .
I wanted to taste her .
Taste her skin , her blood ... her brain ... I shook my head again .
I decisively glanced the other way , out the window and into the night , but only saw my reflection in the kitchen window .
My own face looked desperate , haunted , and a shadow of my former self .
I might have even had drool at the corners of my mouth .
`` Dad , are you even listening to us ? ''
Anna 's voice brought me back .
I forced my mind back into the conversation and turned my face her way .
`` Daddy ? ''
Daddy , she called me Daddy , I thought to myself .
Like when she was little .
`` What ? ''
I asked blankly , forcing myself to cough up a one-word answer .
Except it came out like a growl .
I 'm a monster .
`` Mike says we should contact Uncle Joe , '' she said .
Her eyes fell on mine with growing concern .
`` Okay , '' I said simply .
Was that the right word ?
My mind was wandering again , leaving logic behind .
All I could think of was the smell of humans , and the hunger that raged within me .
Anna was sitting next to me .
I could smell my daughter 's scent , and in a perverse way , I wanted it .
Ca n't be right , I told myself .
She 's your daughter , for Christ 's sake .
But my hand , my good hand , reached out and pawed her .
She shrank back , startled .
Jared jumped up and pulled her back .
Carla took no chances .
She switched into cop mode , jumped up and twisted my arm behind my back .
I cried out in pain .
It was my infected arm !
But she did n't release me .
Anna left the cubs and gingerly approached the big cat .
My hand reached for the rifle .
Anna shook her head at me in defiance as I motioned for her to keep her distance .
I gave Brice our location in the north hills surrounding the zoo .
`` Can you be here within ten minutes ? ''
I asked .
I was beside Anna now .
She caressed the mother 's injection sites .
She ignored my motions to stop .
She did n't even have gloves on .
`` Christ on a Christmas tree , Jack !
Ten minutes ? ''
`` I do n't want to sedate her again if we can help it , '' the words spilled out before I could retract them .
Too late .
Oops .
`` We ?
You 've got Anna with you again ? ''
I could already imagine Brice 's disapproving frown .
I did n't have time to reply before his words vomited loudly through the walkie-talkie-too loudly .
`` How many times do I have to tell you , Jack Carter , '' he snapped , `` that having her assist with any animal rescue is illegal .
The liability alone- '' '' This is her last time , '' I said .
`` I swear . ''
`` That 's what you said last time . ''
`` Look , let 's talk about it later .
I presently have a sleeping wildcat on my hands-a cat that 's gon na be very , very pissed off in twenty minutes .
Besides , '' I added .
`` Besides what ? ''
snapped Brice .
`` My daughter is a natural , '' I said proudly .
Chapter Two On the day that changed his life forever , Lieutenant Commander Joseph Carter fought anxiety as he veered his government vehicle off the freeway .
He headed toward the naval base in Seal Beach , pondering who and what awaited him .
He knew he was n't supposed to smoke in the car .
He lit a cigarette anyway .
He told himself that he had n't done anything wrong .
Nothing to worry about .
But still ... Why had he been summoned ?
`` You know why , '' he told himself , but he did n't want to think about it now .
He inhaled deeply , turned up the radio and opened the car 's windows to clear out the tobacco smoke .
The base was less than ten minutes from the freeway .
That meant , the Lieutenant Commander told himself , that he had ten minutes to gather his thoughts .
Not that he had n't been doing so since earlier today when he was first ordered to report to Seal Beach .
He was n't feeling well , and his sunglasses did little to shield the blinding rays that made his head ache even worse .
He had little appetite .
No surprise there .
This morning , he 'd consumed about a half-gallon of water , which he 'd later upchucked .
`` Must be the flu , '' he muttered , remembering that his buddy , Mike , had displayed the same symptoms .
Thinking of Mike , he glanced in his rearview mirror .
`` Hey , wake up ! ''
He 'd almost forgotten about Mike , and that was strange .
Jesus , his thoughts were scattered .
Mike did n't move , so Joe tossed an empty water bottle back to wake his comrade .
Mike finally sat up , clearly bewildered .
`` We 're almost there , '' Joe said .
`` Get your shit together . ''
Mike did n't look so hot but did his best to comply .
`` Ca n't afford to get sick , '' Joe muttered , whether to himself or Mike , he was n't sure .
But Joe decided to squeeze in a clinic visit and ask for some antibiotics while he was on base .
That would take care of whatever was ailing them .
It was probably just the flu .
He almost missed the entrance , swerving into the left-turn lane at the last moment .
He knew this exit like the back of his hand .
How could he have almost missed it ?
I 'm just distracted and not feeling well , he thought .
It 's just the flu , he told himself again as he flashed his ID to the guards and was waved through the gate .
He veered the car toward base headquarters .
* * * '' Let 's go over it again , '' said the Agent in Black .
Lieutenant Commander Joseph Carter wanted to bury his head in his hands , but he knew better .
This agent had now been questioning him for three hours .
Joe knew the drill .
It could go on for several more if this asshole did n't get the answers he wanted .
Do n't lose your temper , he thought .
Show respect .
No matter how crappy you feel .
And Joe was feeling increasingly crappy .
He was flat-out sick .
He pushed thoughts of the sickness aside and focused on his surroundings , though he did note the location of the nearest wastebasket .
Just in case .
The office was small and it would have been cozy if he had been there under more pleasant circumstances .
The guards outside were the only hint of threat .
The problem was that Joe Carter was having a very hard time remembering what had happened two nights ago .
His thoughts felt scattered , incoherent , almost as if he was drunk .
Or high .
Or both .
The small room and guards outside were also making him feel claustrophobic .
God , his head ached , too .
He wanted to put on his sunglasses , even though the blinds were closed .
The glass of water on the desk sat untouched .
Joe was thirsty , yes , but he did n't want to barf all over the office .
Then again , maybe it would speed up this whole process .
Joe sighed .
`` Where do you want me to begin ? ''
The Agent in Black was seated on the corner of the desk-a position that allowed him to look down on the Lieutenant Commander .
Joe knew all these tactics , but had never had them applied to him .
His pristine record in the military spoke for itself .
He 'd never been in trouble and he did n't think his actions the other night were unwarranted .
`` You and your friend were returning to your quarters from the bar , when ... ? ''
`` I saw what I thought was a meteor , '' said Joe .
`` But it was n't a meteor . ''
`` No . ''
`` And ? ''
Julie shot from the locker , hands half raised and ready to look either threatening or terrified , depending on which seemed more useful .
There was no one on the whole deck level : the airlock , the suit storage room where she 'd spent the last eight days , a half dozen other storage rooms .
All empty .
She plucked a magnetized pipe wrench of suitable size for skull cracking out of an EVA kit , then went down the crew ladder to the deck below .
And then the one below that , and then the one below that .
Personnel cabins in crisp , almost military order .
Commissary , where there were signs of a struggle .
Medical bay , empty .
Torpedo bay .
No one .
The comm station was unmanned , powered down , and locked .
The few sensor logs that still streamed showed no sign of the Scopuli .
A new dread knotted her gut .
Deck after deck and room after room empty of life .
Something had happened .
A radiation leak .
Poison in the air .
Something that had forced an evacuation .
She wondered if she 'd be able to fly the ship by herself .
But if they 'd evacuated , she 'd have heard them going out the airlock , would n't she ?
She reached the final deck hatch , the one that led into engineering , and stopped when the hatch did n't open automatically .
A red light on the lock panel showed that the room had been sealed from the inside .
She thought again about radiation and major failures .
But if either of those was the case , why lock the door from the inside ?
And she had passed wall panel after wall panel .
None of them had been flashing warnings of any kind .
No , not radiation , something else .
There was more disruption here .
Blood .
Tools and containers in disarray .
Whatever had happened , it had happened here .
No , it had started here .
And it had eneded behind that locked door .
It took two hours with a torch and prying tools from the machine shop to cut through the hatch to engineering .
With the hydraulics compromised , she had to crank it open by hand .
A gust of warm wet air blew out , carrying a hospital scent without the antiseptic .
A coppery , nauseating smell .
The torture chamber , then .
Her friends would be inside , beaten or cut to pieces .
Julie hefted her wrench and prepared to bust open at least one head before they killed her .
She floated down .
The engineering deck was huge , vaulted like a cathedral .
The fusion reactor dominated the central space .
Something was wrong with it .
Where she expected to see readouts , shielding , and monitors , a layer of something like mud seemed to flow over the reactor core .
Slowly , Julie floated toward it , one hand still on the ladder .
The strange smell became overpowering .
The mud caked around the reactor had structure to it like nothing she 'd seen before .
Tubes ran through it like veins or airways .
Parts of it pulsed .
Not mud , then .
Flesh .
An outcropping of the thing shifted toward her .
Compared to the whole , it seemed no larger than a toe , a little finger .
It was Captain Darren 's head .
`` Help me , '' it said .
Chapter One : Holden A hundred and fifty years before , when the parochial disagreements between Earth and Mars had been on the verge of war , the Belt had been a far horizon of tremendous mineral wealth beyond viable economic reach , and the outer planets had been beyond even the most unrealistic corporate dream .
Then Solomon Epstein had built his little modified fusion drive , popped it on the back of his three-man yacht , and turned it on .
With a good scope , you could still see his ship going at a marginal percentage of the speed of light , heading out into the big empty .
The best , longest funeral in the history of mankind .
Fortunately , he 'd left the plans on his home computer .
The Epstein Drive had n't given humanity the stars , but it had delivered the planets .
Three-quarters of a kilometer long , a quarter of a kilometer wide-roughly shaped like a fire hydrant-and mostly empty space inside , the Canterbury was a retooled colony transport .
Once , it had been packed with people , supplies , schematics , machines , environment bubbles , and hope .
Just under twenty million people lived on the moons of Saturn now .
The Canterbury had hauled nearly a million of their ancestors there .
Forty-five million on the moons of Jupiter .
One moon of Uranus sported five thousand , the farthest outpost of human civilization , at least until the Mormons finished their generation ship and headed for the stars and freedom from procreation restrictions .
And then there was the Belt .
If you asked OPA recruiters when they were drunk and feeling expansive , they might say there were a hundred million in the Belt .
Ask an inner planet census taker , it was nearer to fifty million .
Any way you looked , the population was huge and needed a lot of water .
So now the Canterbury and her dozens of sister ships in the Pur'n'Kleen Water Company made the loop from Saturn 's generous rings to the Belt and back hauling glaciers , and would until the ships aged into salvage wrecks .
Jim Holden saw some poetry in that .
`` Holden ? ''
He turned back to the hangar deck .
Chief Engineer Naomi Nagata towered over him .
She stood almost two full meters tall , her mop of curly hair tied back into a black tail , her expression halfway between amusement and annoyance .
She had the Belter habit of shrugging with her hands instead of her shoulders .
`` Holden , are you listening , or just staring out the window ? ''
`` There was a problem , '' Holden said .
`` And because you 're really , really good , you can fix it even though you do n't have enough money or supplies . ''
Naomi laughed .
`` So you were n't listening , '' she said .
`` Not really , no . ''
`` Well , you got the basics right anyhow .
Knight 's landing gear is n't going to be good in atmosphere until I can get the seals replaced .
That going to be a problem ? ''
`` I 'll ask the old man , '' Holden said .
`` But when 's the last time we used the shuttle in atmosphere ? ''
`` Never , but regs say we need at least one atmo-capable shuttle . ''
`` Hey , Boss ! ''
Amos Burton , Naomi 's earthborn assistant , yelled from across the bay .
He waved one meaty arm in their general direction .
He meant Naomi .
Amos might be on Captain McDowell 's ship ; Holden might be executive officer ; but in Amos Burton 's world , only Naomi was boss .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
Naomi shouted back .
`` Bad cable .
Can you hold this little f**ker in place while I get the spare ? ''
Leftover spaces from when Ganymede had first been built that no one used anymore except as storage .
This one had a kind of airlock at the end , though , and when they passed through it , things looked a little more like a hospital .
They were cleaner , anyway , and there was the smell of ozone , like in the decontamination cells .
`` Mei !
Hi , Mei ! ''
It was one of the big boys .
Sandro .
He was almost five .
Mei waved at him as Doctor Strickland walked past .
Mei felt better knowing the big boys were here too .
If they were , then it was probably okay , even if the woman walking with Doctor Strickland was n't her mommy .
Which reminded her ... '' Where 's Mommy ? ''
`` We 're going to go see Mommy in just a few minutes , '' Doctor Strickland said .
`` We just have a couple more little things we need to do first . ''
`` No , '' Mei said .
`` I do n't want that . ''
He carried her into a room that looked a little like an examination room , only there were n't any cartoon lions on the walls , and the tables were n't shaped like grinning hippos .
Doctor Strickland put her onto a steel examination table and rubbed her head .
Mei crossed her arms and scowled .
`` I want Mommy , '' Mei said , and made the same impatient grunt that Daddy would .
`` Well , you just wait right here , and I 'll see what I can do about that , '' Doctor Strickland said with a smile .
`` Umea ? ''
`` I think we 're good to go .
Check with ops , load up , and let 's release it . ''
`` I 'll go let them know .
You stay here . ''
The woman nodded , and Doctor Strickland walked back out the door .
The woman looked down at her , the pretty face not smiling at all .
Mei did n't like her .
`` I want my painting , '' Mei said .
`` That 's not for you .
That 's for Mommy . ''
The woman looked at the painting in her hand as if she 'd forgotten it was there .
She unrolled it .
`` It 's Mommy 's space monster , '' Mei said .
This time , the woman smiled .
She held out the painting , and Mei snatched it away .
She made some wrinkles in the paper when she did , but she did n't care .
She crossed her arms again and scowled and grunted .
`` You like space monsters , kid ? ''
the woman asked .
`` I want my mommy . ''
The woman stepped close .
She smelled like fake flowers and her fingers were skinny .
She lifted Mei down to the floor .
`` C'mon , kid , '' she said .
`` I 'll show you something . ''
The woman walked away and for a moment Mei hesitated .
She did n't like the woman , but she liked being alone even less .
She followed .
The woman walked down a short hallway , punched a key-code into a big metal door , like an old-fashioned airlock , and walked through when the door swung open .
Mei followed her .
The new room was cold .
Mei did n't like it .
There was n't an examination table here , just a big glass box like they kept fish in at the aquarium , only it was dry inside , and the thing sitting there was n't a fish .
The woman motioned Mei closer and , when Mei came near , knocked sharply on the glass .
The thing inside looked up at the sound .
It was a man , but he was naked and his skin did n't look like skin .
His eyes glowed blue like there was a fire in his head .
And something was wrong with his hands .
He reached toward the glass , and Mei started screaming .
Chapter One : Bobbie Snoopy 's out again , '' Private Hillman said .
`` I think his CO must be pissed at him . ''
Gunnery Sergeant Roberta Draper of the Martian Marine Corps upped the magnification on her armor 's heads-up display and looked in the direction Hillman was pointing .
Twenty-five hundred meters away , a squad of four United Nations Marines were tromping around their outpost , backlit by the giant greenhouse dome they were guarding .
A greenhouse dome identical in nearly all respects to the dome her own squad was currently guarding .
One of the four UN Marines had black smudges on the sides of his helmet that looked like beagle ears .
`` Yep , that 's Snoopy , '' Bobbie said .
`` Been on every patrol detail so far today .
Wonder what he did . ''
Guard duty around the greenhouses on Ganymede meant doing what you could to keep your mind occupied .
Including speculating on the lives of the Marines on the other side .
The other side .
Eighteen months before , there had n't been sides .
The inner planets had all been one big , happy , slightly dysfunctional family .
Then Eros , and now the two superpowers were dividing up the solar system between them , and the one moon neither side was willing to give up was Ganymede , breadbasket of the Jovian system .
As the only moon with any magnetosphere , it was the only place where dome-grown crops stood a chance in Jupiter 's harsh radiation belt , and even then the domes and habitats still had to be shielded to protect civilians from the eight rems a day burning off Jupiter and onto the moon 's surface .
Bobbie 's armor had been designed to let a soldier walk through a nuclear bomb crater minutes after the blast .
It also worked well at keeping Jupiter from frying Martian Marines .
Behind the Earth soldiers on patrol , their dome glowed in a shaft of weak sunlight captured by enormous orbital mirrors .
Even with the mirrors , most terrestrial plants would have died , starved of sunlight .
Only the heavily modified versions the Ganymede scientists cranked out could hope to survive in the trickle of light the mirrors fed them .
`` Be sunset soon , '' Bobbie said , still watching the Earth Marines outside their little guard hut , knowing they were watching her too .
In addition to Snoopy , she spotted the one they called Stumpy because he or she could n't be much over a meter and a quarter tall .
She wondered what their nickname for her was .
Maybe Big Red .
Her armor still had the Martian surface camouflage on it .
She had n't been on Ganymede long enough to get it resurfaced with mottled gray and white .
One by one over the course of five minutes , the orbital mirrors winked out as Ganymede passed behind Jupiter for a few hours .
The glow from the greenhouse behind her changed to actinic blue as the artificial lights came on .
While the overall light level did n't go down much , the shadows shifted in strange and subtle ways .
Above , the sun-not even a disk from here as much as the brightest star-flashed as it passed behind Jupiter 's limb , and for a moment the planet 's faint ring system was visible .
`` They 're going back in , '' Corporal Travis said .
`` Snoop 's bringing up the rear .
Poor guy .
Can we bail too ? ''
Bobbie looked around at the featureless dirty ice of Ganymede .
Even in her high-tech armor she could feel the moon 's chill .
`` Nope . ''
Her squad grumbled but fell in line as she led them on a slow low-gravity shuffle around the dome .
`` It 's starting to come on . ''
`` That 's good . ''
He gathered her a little closer .
She rested her head against his chest , and they waited quietly for the precious minutes to pass .
Seven communities-called the neighborhoods-scattered through the northern reach of the Aurorae Sinus made up Londres Nova .
The city , such as it was , had burrowed deep into the flesh of Mars , using the soil as insulation and radiation shielding with only ten domes pressing out to the surface .
Forty thousand people lived and worked there , carving new life into the unforgiving stone of humanity 's second home .
Tube stations made a simple web topology that determined the social forms and structures .
Aterpol was the only station with connections to every other neighborhood , and so it became the de facto downtown .
Salton was under the biggest agricultural dome and had a surface monorail to the observatory at Dhanbad Nova , and so the upper university and technical clinics were concentrated there .
The lower university was in Breach Candy , where David and his family lived .
Nariman and Martineztown had been manufacturing and energy production sites in the first wave of colonization , and the displacement that came with new technologies meant both neighborhoods were struggling to reinvent and repurpose themselves .
Innis Deep and Innis Shallows each had only a single tube route out , making them cul-de-sacs and havens for the sort of Martian who was almost a Belter-antisocial , independent , and intolerant .
An address in either Innis was the mark of an outsider-someone dangerous or vulnerable .
Leelee lived in the Shallows , and Hutch lived in the Deep .
As much as the neighborhoods differed , the tube stations were the same : high , arched ceilings bright with full-spectrum light and chaotic with echoes ; thin-film video monitors pasted to the walls , blaring public information and entertainment feeds ; kiosks selling food and clothes , the latest fads and fashions cycled in and out as regularly as tides .
Security cameras looked down on everything , identity-matching software tweaking the video feeds to put names with faces in the crowd .
The air always seemed to have the faint scents of ozone and cheap food and piss .
The plastic-film flyers always looked the same whether they were announcing yoga classes , lost pets , or independent music acts .
David had been to the cities in Mariner Valley and the base of Olympus Mons , and the tube stations had been the same there too .
The one unifying cultural product of Mars .
David led Leelee through the bustle of the Martineztown station .
He shifted his satchel so that she could put her arm around his .
The farther they walked the less steady her steps were .
Her arm curled around him like ivy clinging to a pillar , and he could feel the stiffness in her muscles and hear it in her voice when she spoke .
Her pupils were dilating with pleasure and the chemical cascade in her brain .
He wondered what she was seeing .
`` You never try the stuff yourself ? ''
she asked again , unaware that it was the third time .
`` No , '' David said again .
`` I 'm finishing up my senior labs .
There is n't really time for a night off .
Later maybe .
When I get my placement . ''
`` You 're so smart , '' she said .
`` Hutch always says how you 're so smart . ''
Ahead of them , near the platform , a crowd of something close to fifty people were chanting together and holding up signs .
A dozen uniformed cops stood a few yards away , not interfering , but watching closely .
David ducked his head and turned Leelee away at an angle .
Maybe if they headed toward the restrooms there would be a way to the platform that did n't involve walking a tripping girl past the police .
Not that the police were paying much attention to the foot traffic .
Their attention was all on the protest .
The signs were hand lettered or printed on standard-sized paper and glued together .
A couple had thin-film monitors playing looped images that fuzzed out to a psychedelic rainbow swirl when the signs flexed .
HIT BACK !
and ARE WE WAITING UNTIL THEY KILL US ?
and EARTH STARTED IT .
LET 'S FINISH IT .
This last slogan was accompanied by a bad homemade animation of a rock slamming into the Earth , a massive molten impact crater looking like a bloody bullet wound in the planet .
The protestors were a mixed group , but most were a little older than David or Leelee .
Blood-dark faces and the square-gape mouths sent the sense of rage radiating out from them like heat .
David paused , trying to make out what exactly they were chanting through the echoes , but all he could tell was that it had seven syllables , four in a call and three in response .
One of the police shifted , looking at David , and he started walking again .
It was n't his fight .
He did n't care .
By the time they reached the platform , Leelee had gone quiet .
He led her to a formed plastic bench that was intended for three people , but was snug with just the two of them .
It ticked and popped under his weight , and Leelee flinched from the sound .
There were small , distressed lines between her brows .
The arrival board listed six minutes for the tube that would eventually get them to Innis Shallows , the seconds counting down in clean-lined Arabic numerals .
When Leelee spoke , her voice was tight .
He did n't know if it was from sadness or the expected side effect of the drug .
`` Everybody 's so angry , '' she said .
`` I just wish people were n't so angry . ''
`` They 've got reason to be . ''
Her focus swam for a moment , her gaze fighting to find him .
`` Everyone 's got reasons to be , '' she said .
`` I 've got reasons to be .
You 've got reasons to be .
Does n't mean we are , though .
Does n't mean we want to be .
You are n't angry are you , David ? ''
The question ended almost like a plea , and he wanted to tell her that he was n't .
He wanted to say whatever words would smooth her perfect brow , and then take her back to her room in the housing complex and kiss her and have her strip off his clothes .
He wanted to see her naked and hear her laugh and fall asleep , spent , in her arms .
He coughed , shifting on the bench .
`` You are n't angry , are you ? ''
she asked again .
The soft tritone sounded .
`` The tube car 's here , '' he said , forcing a smile .
`` Everything 's going to be fine .
Just relax , right ? ''
She nodded and tried to pull away from him .
`` It 's all red .
You 're red too .
Like a great big cherry .
You 're so smart , '' she said .
`` So you never try the stuff yourself ? ''
On the tube car , things were n't better .
This leg of the trip was an express for Aterpol , and the men and women on it were older than he was by a decade .
Their demographic weight had the public monitor set to a newsfeed .
In some well-appointed newsroom on the planet , a thin , gray-haired man was shouting down a swarthy woman .
`` I do n't care ! ''
the man said .
`` The agent they weaponized came from some larger , extra-solar ecosystem , and I do n't care .
I do n't care about Phoebe .
I do n't care about Venus .
What I care about is what they did .
The fact is-and no one disputes this-the fact is that Earth bought those weapons and- '' '' That 's a gross oversimplification .
Evidence is that there were several bids , including one from- '' '' Earth bought those weapons and they fired them at us .
Then out again for the long trip past Saturn , sucking more juice out of its orbital velocity , and then farther out into the black , not accelerating again , but going faster than anyone would imagine a little converted rock hopper could manage .
Through millions of klicks of vacuum to hit a bull's-eye smaller than a mosquito 's ass**le .
Neo imagined the expressions of all the science and military ships parked around the Ring when a little ship , no transponder and flying ballistic , appeared out of nowhere and shot straight through the Ring at a hundred and fifty thousand kilometers per hour .
After that , he 'd have to move fast .
He did n't have enough fuel left to kill all his velocity , but he 'd slow down enough that they could get a rescue ship to him .
He 'd do some time in slam , that was sure .
Maybe two years , if the magistrates were being pissy .
It was worth it , though .
Just the messages from the black net where all his friends were tracking him with the constant and rising chorus of holy shit it 's going to work made it worth it .
He was going down in history .
In a hundred years , people were still going to be talking about the biggest-balled slingshot ever .
He 'd lost months building the Y Que , more than that in transit , then jail time after .
It was worth it .
He was going to live forever .
Twenty hours .
The biggest danger was the flotilla surrounding the Ring .
Earth and Mars had kicked each other 's navies into creaky old men months ago , but what was left was mostly around the Ring .
Or else down in the inner planets , but Neo did n't care about them .
There were maybe twenty or thirty big military ships watching each other while every science vessel in the system peeked and listened and floated gently a couple thousand klicks from the Ring .
All the navy muscle there to make sure no one touched .
Scared , all of them .
Even with all that metal and ceramic crammed into the same little corner of space , even with the relatively tiny thousand klicks across what was the inner face of the Ring , the chances that he 'd run into anything were trivial .
There was a lot more nothing than something .
And if he did hit one of the flotilla ships , he was n't going to be around to worry about it , so he just gave it up to the Virgin and started setting up the high-speed camera .
When it finally happened , it would be so fast , he would n't even know whether he 'd made the mark until he analyzed the data .
And he was making sure there was going to be a record .
He turned his transmitters back on .
`` Hoy , '' he said into the camera , `` Neo here .
Neo solo .
Captain and crew of souveran Belt-racer Y Que .
Mielista me .
Got six hours until biggest slipper since God made man .
Es pa mi mama , the sweet Sophia Brun , and Jesus our Lord and Savior .
Watch close .
Blink it and miss , que sa ? ''
He watched the file .
He looked like crap .
He probably had time ; he could shave the ratty little beard off and at least tie back his hair .
He wished now he 'd kept up with his daily exercises so he would n't look so chicken-shouldered .
Too late now .
Still , he could mess with the camera angle .
He was ballistic .
Was n't like there was any thrust gravity to worry about .
He tried again from two other angles until his vanity was satisfied , then switched to the external cameras .
His introduction was a little over ten seconds long .
He 'd start the broadcast twenty seconds out , then switch to the exterior cameras .
More than a thousand frames per second , and it still might miss the Ring between images .
He had to hope for the best .
Was n't like he could get another camera now , even if a better one existed .
He drank the rest of his water and wished that he 'd packed just a little more food .
A tube of protein slush would have gone down really well .
It 'd be done soon .
He 'd be in some Earther or Martian brig where there would be a decent toilet and water to drink and prisoner 's rations .
He was almost looking forward to it .
His sleeping comm array woke up and squawked about a tightbeam .
He opened the connection .
The encryption meant it was from the black net , and sent long enough ago that it would reach him here .
Someone besides him was showing off .
Evita was still beautiful , but more like a woman now than she 'd been when he 'd started getting money and salvage to build the Y Que .
Another five years , she 'd be plain .
He 'd still have a thing for her , though .
`` Esa , unokabatya , '' she said .
`` Eyes of the world .
Toda auge .
Mine too . ''
She smiled , and just for a second , he thought maybe she 'd lift her shirt .
For good luck .
The tightbeam dropped .
Two hours .
`` I repeat , this is Martian frigate Lucien to the unidentified ship approaching the Ring .
Respond immediately or we will open fire . ''
Three minutes .
They 'd seen him too soon .
The Ring was still three minutes away , and they were n't supposed to see him until he had less than one .
Neo cleared his throat .
`` No need , que sa ?
No need .
This is the Y Que , racer out sa Ceres Station . ''
`` Your transponder is n't on , Y Que . ''
`` Busted , yeah ?
Need some help with that . ''
`` Your radio 's working just fine , but I 'm not hearing a distress beacon . ''
`` Not distressed , '' he said , pulling the syllables out for every extra second .
He could keep them talking .
`` Ballistic is all .
Can fire up the reactor , but it 's going to take a couple minutes .
Maybe you can come give a hand , eh ? ''
`` You are in restricted space , Y Que , '' the Martian said , and Neo felt the grin growing on his face .
`` No harm , '' he said .
`` No harm .
Surrender .
Just got to get slowed down a little .
Firing it up in a few seconds .
Hold your piss . ''
`` You have ten seconds to change trajectory away from the Ring or we will open fire . ''
The fear felt like victory .
He was doing it .
He was on target for the Ring and it was freaking them out .
One minute .
He started warming up the reactor .
When Burton smiled his small , amused smile , the only one who saw it was Timmy , and if he understood it , he did n't react .
`` Why do n't you wait here , little man , '' Burton said .
`` Arright , '' Timmy said , and Burton was already walking out the door .
Out in the cafe , the lunch rush had started .
The booths and tables were filled , and a crowd loitered in the doorway , scowling at the waitresses , the diners who had gotten tables before them , and the empty place reserved for Burton and whoever he chose to have near him .
As soon as he took his chair , the waitress came over , her eyebrows raised , as if he were a new customer .
He waved her away .
There was something about sitting at an empty table in full view of hungry men and women that Burton enjoyed .
What you want , I can take or I can leave , it said .
All I want is to keep your options for myself .
Erich and Oestra sat .
`` That boy , '' Burton said , letting the words take on an affected drawl , `` is some piece of work . ''
`` Yeah , '' Oestra said .
`` He 's good at what he does , '' Erich said .
`` He 'll get better . ''
Burton was quiet for a long moment .
A man at the front door pointed an angry finger toward Burton 's table , demanding something of the waitress .
She took the stranger 's hand and pushed it down .
The angry man left .
Burton watched him go .
If he did n't know any better , this was n't the place for him .
`` Erich , I do n't think I can take your friend off his probation period .
Not with this .
Not yet . ''
Erich nodded , the urge to speak for Timmy and the fear of losing Burton 's fickle forgiveness warring in his throat .
Oestra was the one to break the silence .
`` You want to give him another job ? ''
The words carried a weight of incredulity measured to the gram .
`` The right job , '' Burton said .
`` Right one for now , anyway .
You say he watched out for you , growing up ? ''
`` He did , '' Erich said .
`` Let him do that , then .
Timmy 's going to be your personal bodyguard on your next job .
Keep you out of trouble .
See if you can keep him out of trouble too .
At least do better than Oey did with him , right ? ''
Burton said and laughed .
A moment later Oestra laughed too , only a little sourly .
Erich could n't manage much more than a sick , relieved grin .
`` I 'll tell him , '' he said .
`` I 'll take care of it . ''
`` Do , '' Burton said , smiling .
An awkward moment later , Erich got up , head bobbing like a bird 's with gratitude and discomfort .
Burton and Oestra watched him limp back toward the storage room .
Oestra sighed .
`` I do n't know why you 're cultivating that freak , '' Burton 's lieutenant said .
`` He 's off the grid and he cooks good identity docs , '' Burton said .
`` I like having someone who ca n't be traced keeping my name clean . ''
`` I do n't mean the cripple .
I mean the other one .
Seriously , there 's something wrong with that kid . ''
`` I think he 's got potential . ''
`` Potential for what ? ''
`` Exactly , '' Burton said .
`` Okay , so tell me the rest .
What 's going on out there ? ''
Oestra hoisted his eyebrows and hunched forward , elbows on the table .
The kids running unlicensed games by the waterfront were n't coming up with the usual take .
One of the brothels had been hit by an outbreak of antibiotic-resistant syphilis ; one of the youngest boys , a five-year-old , had it in his eyes .
Burton 's neighbor to the north-an Earthbound branch of the Loca Griega-were seeing raids on their drug manufacturing houses .
Burton listened with his eyelids at half-mast .
Individually , no one event mattered much , but put together , they were the first few fat raindrops in a coming storm .
Oestra knew it too .
By the time the lunch rush ended , the booths and tables filling and emptying in the systole and diastole of the day 's vast urban heart , Burton 's mind was on a dozen other things .
Erich and Timmy and the death of a small-time deadbeat were n't forgotten , but no particular importance was put on them either .
That was what it meant to be Burton : those things that could rise up to fill a small person 's whole horizon were only small parts of his view .
He was the boss , the big-picture man .
Like Baltimore itself , he weathered storms .
* * * Time had not been kind to the city .
Its coastline was a ruin of drowned buildings kept from salvage by a complexity of rights , jurisdictions , regulations , and apathy until the rising sea had all but reclaimed them for its own .
The Urban Arcology movement had peaked there a decade or two before the technology existed to make its dreams of vast , sustainable structures a reality .
It had left a wall seven miles long and twenty stories high of decaying hope and structural resin that reached from the beltway to Lake Montebello .
At the street level , electric networks laced the roadways , powering and guiding the vehicles that could use them .
Sparrows Island stood out in the waves like a widow watching the sea for a ship that would never come home , and Federal Hill scowled back at the city across shallow , filthy water , emperor of its own abandoned land .
Everywhere , all through the city , space was at a premium .
Extended families lived in decaying apartments designed for half as many .
Men and women who could n't escape the cramped space spent their days at the screens of their terminals , watching newsfeeds and dramas and pornography and living on the textured protein and enriched rice of basic .
For most , their forays into crime were halfhearted , milquetoast affairs-a backroom brewer making weak , unregulated beer ; a few kids stealing a neighbor 's clothes or breaking their furniture ; a band of scavengers with scrounged tools harvesting metal from the buried infrastructure of the city that had been .
Baltimore was Earth writ small , crowded and bored .
Its citizens were caught between the dismal life of basic and the barriers of class , race , and opportunity , vicious competition and limited resources , that kept all but the most driven from a profession and actual currency .
The dictates of the regional administration in Chicago filtered down to the streets slowly , and the local powers might be weaker than the government , but they were also closer , the gravities of law and lawlessness finding their balance point somewhere just north of Lansdowne .
Time had not been kind to Lydia either .
She was n't one of the unregistered , but very little of what was important in her life appeared in the government records .
There , she was a name-not Lydia-and an address where she had never lived .
Her real home was four rooms on the fifth floor of a minor arcology looking out over the harbor .
Her real work was keeping track of inventory for Liev , one of Burton 's lieutenants .
Before that , she had been his lover .
Before that , she had been a whore in his stable .
Before that , she had been someone else who she could hardly remember anymore .
When she was alone , and she was often alone , the narrative she told herself was of how lucky she was .
She 'd escaped basic , she 'd had dear friends and mentors when she was working , she 'd been able to retire up in the ad hoc structure of the city 's underworld .
Many , many people had n't been anywhere near as fortunate as she had been .
She was growing old , yes .
There was gray in her hair now .
Lines at the corners of her eyes , the first faint liver spots on the backs of her hands .
She told herself they were the evidence of her success .
Too many of her friends had never had them .
Never would .
Her life had been a patchwork of love and violence , and the overlap was vast .
Even if they made the idea of take-out shwarma seem awfully tempting .
`` - not what I 'm saying , '' her nephew said .
He was in upper university now , but when the family started fighting , she could still hear the six-year-old in his voice .
Her brother boomed in reply .
Bobbie recognized the percussive tapping of his fingertips against the tabletop as he made his points .
Drumming as a rhetorical device .
Their father did the same thing .
`` Mars is not optional . ''
Tap .
`` It is not secondary . ''
Tap .
`` These gates and whatever 's on the other side of them is n't our home .
The terraforming effort - '' '' I 'm not arguing against the terraforming , '' her nephew said as she walked into the room .
Her sister-in-law nodded to her from the kitchen wordlessly .
Bobbie nodded back .
The dining room looked down into a living space where a muted newsfeed was showing long-distance images of unfamiliar planets with a beautiful black man in wire-rimmed glasses speaking earnestly between them .
`` All I 'm saying is that we 're going to have a lot of new data .
Data .
That 's all I 'm saying . ''
The two of them were hunched over the table like there was an invisible chessboard between them .
A game of concentration and intellect that wrapped them both up until they could n't see the world around them .
In a lot of ways , that was true .
She took her chair without either of them acknowledging she 'd arrived .
`` Mars , '' her brother said , `` is the most studied planet there is .
It does n't matter how many new datasets you get that are n't about Mars .
They are n't about Mars !
It 's like saying that seeing pictures of a thousand other tables will tell you about the one you 're already sitting at . ''
`` Knowledge is good , '' her nephew said .
`` You 're the one who always told me that .
I do n't know why you 're getting so bent about it now . ''
`` How are things for you , Bobbie ? ''
her sister-in-law said sharply , carrying a bowl to the table .
Rice and peppers to use as a bed for the gumbo and a reminder to the others that there was a guest .
The two men scowled at the interruption .
`` Good , '' Bobbie said .
`` The contract with the shipyards came through .
It should help us place a lot of vets in new jobs . ''
`` Because they 're building exploration ships and transports , '' her nephew said .
`` David . ''
`` Sorry , Mom .
But they are , '' David replied , not backing down .
Bobbie scooped the rice into her bowl .
`` All the ships that are easy to retrofit , they 're retrofitting , and then they 're making more so that people can go to all the new systems . ''
Her brother took the rice and the serving spoon , chuckling under his breath to make it clear how little he respected his son 's opinion .
`` The first real survey team is just getting to the first of these places - '' '' There are already people living on New Terra , Dad !
There were a bunch of refugees from Ganymede - '' He broke off , shooting a guilty glance at Bobbie .
Ganymede was n't something they talked about over dinner .
`` The survey team has n't landed yet , '' her brother said .
`` It 's going to be years before we have anything like real colonies out there . ''
`` It 's going to be generations before anyone walks on the surface here !
We do n't have a fucking magnetosphere ! ''
`` Language , David ! ''
Her sister-in-law returned .
The gumbo was black and fragrant with a sheen of oil across the top .
The smell of it made Bobbie 's mouth water .
She put it on the slate trivet and handed the serving spoon to Bobbie .
`` And how 's your new apartment ? ''
she asked .
`` It 's nice , '' Bobbie said .
`` Inexpensive . ''
`` I wish you were n't living in Innis Shallow , '' her brother said .
`` It 's a terrible neighborhood . ''
`` No one 's going to bother Aunt Bobbie , '' her nephew said .
`` She 'd rip their heads off . ''
Bobbie grinned .
`` Naw , I just look at them mean , and they - '' From the living room , there was a sudden glow of red light .
The newsfeed had changed .
Bright red banners showed at the top and bottom , and on the screen , a jowly Earth woman looked soberly into the camera .
The image behind her was of fire and then a stock image of an old colony ship .
The words , black against the white of the flames , read TRAGEDY ON NEW TERRA .
`` What happened ? ''
Bobbie said .
`` What just happened ? ''
Chapter One : Basia Basia Merton had been a gentle man , once .
He had n't been the sort of man who made bombs out of old metal lubricant drums and mining explosives .
He rolled another one out of the little workshop behind his house and toward one of First Landing 's electric carts .
The little stretch of buildings spread to the north and south , and then ended , the darkness of the plain stretching to the horizon .
The flashlight hanging from his belt bounced as he walked , casting strange moving shadows across the dusty ground .
Small alien animals hooted at him from outside the circle of light .
Nights on Ilus - he would n't call it New Terra - were very dark .
The planet had thirteen tiny , low-albedo moons spaced so consistently in the same orbit that everyone assumed they were alien artifacts .
Wherever they 'd come from , they were more like captured asteroids than real moons to someone who grew up on the planet-sized satellites of Jupiter .
And they did nothing to catch and reflect the light of Ilus ' sun once it set .
The local nighttime wildlife was mostly small birds and lizards .
Or what Ilus ' new human inhabitants thought of as birds and lizards .
They shared only the most superficial external traits and a primarily carbon base with their terrestrial namesakes .
Basia grunted with effort as he lifted the barrel onto the back of the cart , and a second later an answering grunt came from a few meters away .
A mimic lizard , curiosity drawing it right up to the edge of the light , its small eyes glittering .
It grunted again , its wide , leathery , bullfrog-shaped head bobbing , and the air sac below its neck inflating and deflating with the sound .
It waited for a moment , staring at him , and when he did n't respond , it crawled off into the dark .
Basia pulled elastic straps out of a toolbox and began securing the barrels to the bed of the cart .
The explosive would n't go off just from falling on the ground .
Or that was what Coop said , anyhow .
Basia did n't feel like testing it .
`` Baz , '' Lucia said .
He flushed with embarrassment like a small boy caught stealing candy .
Lucia knew what he was doing .
He 'd never been able to lie to her .
But he 'd hoped she would stay inside while he worked .
Just her presence made him wonder if he was doing the right thing .
I know you did n't swim here .
Too slow and stupid for that .
There is a gurgle in his throat and a blue crab bursts out from the sandy exposed end of the windpipe and scurries away .
You know what I think ?
she says .
I think you tried to climb across those rocks .
And I think you got picked up by those waves and got bust apart pretty good .
That 's what I think .
What do you say about that ?
He has worked the arm free from underneath him and reaches toward her .
But the fingers fall short by inches and dig furrows in the sand .
Well , she says , you shoulda been here last night .
There was a moon so big you could just about reach up and pluck it out of the sky .
And these fish , all electriclike , buzzing in circles round my ankles .
It was something else , mister .
I 'm telling you , a miracle if ever there was one .
She looks at the rolling eye and the shuddering torso .
Maybe you ai n't so interested in miracles .
But still and all , you can cherish a miracle without deserving one .
We 're all of us beholden to the beauty of the world , even the bad ones of us .
Maybe the bad ones most of all .
She sighs , deep and long .
Anyway , she says , I guess you heard enough of my palaver .
Listen to me , I 'm doin enough jawing for the both of us .
Enough jawing for the both of us-get it ?
She laughs at her joke , and her laughter trails off as she stands and brushes the sand off her palms and looks out over the water to the mainland .
Then she walks up to a stand of palm trees above the beach and looks in the grassy undergrowth , stomping around with her feet until she finds what she 's looking for .
It 's a big rock , bigger than a football .
It takes her half an hour to dig around it with a stick and extract it from the earth .
Nature does n't like to be tinkered with .
Then she carries the rock back down to the beach where the man is lying mostly still .
When he sees her , he comes to life again and begins squirming and shuddering and guggling his throat .
Anyway , she says to him , you 're the first one that got here .
That counts , I guess .
It makes you like Christopher Columbus or something .
But this tide and all-you wan na bet there 's more of you coming ?
You wan na bet there 's all your slug friends on their way ?
That 's a pretty safe bet , I 'd say .
She nods and looks out over the shoal again .
Okay then , she says , lifting the rock up over her head and bringing it down on his face with a thick wet crunch .
The arms are still moving , but she knows that happens for a while afterward sometimes .
She lifts the rock again and brings it down twice more just to make sure .
Then she leaves the rock where it is , like a headstone , and goes down to her fishing net and finds a medium-sized fish in it and takes the fish back up to the lighthouse , where she cooks it over a fire and eats it with salt and pepper .
Then she climbs the steps to the top of the tower and goes out on the catwalk and looks far off toward the mainland .
She kneels down and puts her chin against the cold metal railing and says : I reckon it 's time to move along again .
2 .
That night , by firelight , she removes from the hatch in the floor the things she stowed there when she first arrived .
The cooler , the canteen , the pistol with two good rounds left in it .
Later , she takes the gurkha knife and the pocket stone down to the beach and sits on the sand whetting the edge of it in long smooth strokes .
She takes her time with this , sitting there under the moon for the better part of an hour , until she can taste the sharpness of the blade with her tongue .
It 's a good blade , a foot long with an inward curve to it .
It whistles when she swings it through the air .
She sleeps soundly that night but wakes herself up just before dawn and gathers her things .
She puts the knife and the pistol and the canteen and her panama hat into the cooler and drags it down to the beach .
Then she walks back up to the lighthouse to say goodbye .
It 's a sorry thing to leave your home , and this one 's been good to her .
She feels like a pea at the base of that tallboy tower .
She climbs the steps one last time to the catwalk and looks at herself in the thousand tiny mirrors of the dead light .
Her hair is long and stringy , and she takes a band and ties it up in back .
Then she reaches in and uses her fingers to pry loose one of the little mirrors and puts it in her pocket as a souvenir of her time here .
Truth be told , the inward gaze is something she 's not too fond of .
But there are secrets that lurk in the mind , and she does n't want any of them sneaking up on her .
Sometimes it pays to take a deep look inside even if you get queasy gazing into those dark corners .
Back at the bottom , she goes out and shuts the door , pulling it closed tight behind her so the wind wo n't blow it open and stir things around in there .
It 's a warming thought to picture it staying the same after she 's gone away from it .
She stands at the base and cranes her neck to look up at it .
Goodbye , you good old tower , she says .
Keep standin true .
Take care of whoever settles down in you next , dead or alive , sinner or saint .
She nods .
It 's a nice thing to say , she thinks , like a blessing or a toast or a birthday wish or a funeral sermon-and she knows that words have the power to make things true if they 're said right .
DOWN AT the beach , she strips naked and puts all her clothes and her shoes in the cooler with everything else and shuts the lid as tight as she can , stomping up and down on it a few times .
She pulls it into the waves until it begins to lift in the current of its own accord-then she swings it in front of her and pushes it over the breakers until she 's beyond them and beyond the swells .
She swims toward the mainland , keeping far away from the shoal so the current wo n't pull her onto the rocks .
She keeps her arms around the cooler and kicks her feet , and when she 's tired she stops and floats and keeps an eye on the mainland to see which way the current is taking her .
There 's a breeze that sweeps over the surface of the water , and it makes goosebumps on her wet skin , but it 's still better than attempting the swim at midday when the sun is directly overhead and parching you up like a lizard .
She has no way to tell time , but she 's no fast swimmer and it feels like an hour before she reaches the mainland and pulls the cooler up onto the beach and sits on a rock wringing the salt water out of her hair and drying her skin in the morning breeze .
The beach is deserted , and she opens the cooler and takes out a miniature spyglass and climbs a set of broken concrete steps to a gravel turnout overlooking the shore to get the lay of the land .
There are two cars parked down the road and some shacks in the distance .
Against the horizon she can see a few slugs .
They have n't caught her scent , and they 're limping around in their random jerky way .
She keeps her head low and focuses the spyglass again on the two cars .
One of them is a jeep , and the other is a squat red car with two doors .
All the wheels seem intact from what she can tell .
Back down on the beach , she combs out her hair with her fingers and from under the screen of her hair she can see a figure on the shore in the distance .
She does n't need the spyglass-she can tell by the way it lumbers .
Slug .
She finishes tugging the knots out of her hair and ties it up into a ponytail .
Then she takes her clothes from the cooler and dresses .
The slug has spotted her and is headed in her direction , but its feet keep getting tripped up in the sand .
She pulls out the spyglass and looks through it .
The dead woman is dressed in a nurse 's uniform .
Her top is medical green , but her bottoms are brightly colored , like pajama pants .
Temple ca n't tell what the pattern is , but it looks like it could be lollipops .
She closes the spyglass and stows it in her pocket .
Then she goes back to the cooler and takes out the pistol , checking the rounds to make sure they have n't gotten wet , and puts on the sheathed gurkha knife , which hangs from her belt and straps to her thigh with two leather ties .
By the time she 's finished , the nurse is twenty yards away , her hands reaching out before her .
Instinctual desire .
Hunger , thirst , lust , all the vestigial drives knotted up in one churning , ambling stomach .
Temple looks one last time at the nurse , then turns and climbs the concrete stairs up toward the road .
Abraham disappears and returns a moment later .
Half wrappered in his pants and shirt , he stumbles down the staircase as the men of the community begin to circle , looking angry .
What 's going on ?
they say .
We 're leaving , Moses says .
And the two brothers open the front door to find a man with a shotgun aimed directly at them .
He is a skinny old man with white hair and red-rimmed eyes .
He is decrepit , and the shotgun shakes in his hands .
What did you do to my granddaughter ?
the old man says .
It was bought- , Abraham begins , but then Moses seizes his brother by the back of the neck as you would pluck a kitten from a litter .
Abraham winces with pain and hushes .
We 're leaving , Moses says to the old man .
My granddaughter , you filthied her .
I got no truck with you , old man , Moses says .
Others from the community gather round .
They wonder what devils they have invited into their midst for the price of a few supplies .
You got truck with this , the old man says , gesturing to the shotgun with shaky hands .
Moses quickly unsheathes his knife and thrusts it at the man 's face , the point of the blade an inch from the old man 's nose .
The old man quakes and shrinks away but keeps the gun pointed at Moses .
Stand down , Moses says .
I ai n't so sure you can pull that trigger .
But I 'm damn sure I can use this knife .
I am repentant about the agitation we caused , but we 're gon na be on our way now .
Understood ?
The old man hesitates a moment longer then lowers the gun and steps aside miserably .
Filth , he says as Moses passes by dragging his brother along by the neck .
The brothers climb into their car .
Most of the residents of the community watch quietly as they leave .
And a few gather around the old man to hold him back as he starts to run after the car , crying , You go to hell !
You go straight to hell !
Some fun , eh ?
Abraham says .
Shut up , Moses says , and his voice must be a gavel of some sort , because it works to keep his brother hushed for the next half-hour .
* And when they are out in the desert , Moses pulls the car to the shoulder of the road and brings it to a stop .
In the far distance there are two slugs walking slowly , knocking together clownishly as they move .
When they see the car , they begin to amble towards it - but they are desiccated and slow .
What are we stoppin for ?
Abraham asks .
Moses climbs out of the car and walks around to open the passenger-side door .
Then he reaches in , grabs his brother by the upper arm , drags him out of the seat and tosses him to the hard pebbled earth .
What did you do to that girl ?
Moses says .
It was bought and paid for , Abraham says .
Say it again .
Just say it again .
Now what did you do to her ?
Nothin .
I did n't do nothin .
I barely touched her , her just laying there like a stinkin mackerel .
Moses wants to strike him , but he turns and brings his heavy fist down on the hood of the car instead .
The metal warbles with the violence .
You better get right , Moses tells his brother .
Get right ?
Mose , we 're f**kin mercenaries .
Who is ?
We all are .
Everybody is .
Ai n't you noticed ?
Get right or you 're gon na get made right .
Get made right by who ?
You ?
Not me .
How come not you ?
I 'm your brother .
You got one fate by me but another fate by the world .
Do n't get mystical , Mose .
Ai n't but one man could stop me doin anything , and that 's you .
You do n't stop me , that makes you complicit .
That ai n't how it works .
According to whose laws ?
Theirs ?
Abraham points to the two slugs drawing closer .
There 's plenty in the world to stop you , Moses says , but only one to stand beside you .
Whether I like it or not .
Abraham stands and brushes off the seat of his pants .
That 's a touching thing you just said , big brother .
Now I 'm all filled with grief and contrition .
Come on , that girl , it was just a little fun I was havin is all .
Moses looks at him , his younger brother .
There are forces working on forces , there must be , and so they must converge on every moment , every place , every person - even his brother .
There must be born somewhere the force to take care of the problem of his brother - just as his brother was born an antidote to so many strains of goodness .
These things converge .
They must .
Moses walks past his brother into the desert .
Get in the car , he says as he passes .
Where you goin ?
I 'll be back .
He walks towards the two slugs ambling towards them .
He seems as though he would greet them , except in his outstretched hand is the blade .
He topples one of them with a kick and drives the blade deep into the eye socket of the other .
He twists the blade in the eye and shoves it as deep as he can with no leverage .
A clear jelly runs down the cheek like congealed tears , and the slug falls backwards .
They are weak , these .
They might have been wandering the desert together for years , brothers too , bonded in twitchy recognition of the barest humanity .
With one down he toys with the other , kicking it in its stomach and chest .
He can feel the fragile bones breaking with each blow .
Without knowing what he means , he says under his breath : You ai n't one of me .
You ai n't one of me .
Then : I 'm sorry .
Thunder rattled the windows .
Five seconds elapsed .
When the sky exploded again , Rachael felt a strange , unnerving pull to look through the driver 's side window .
A man swung a crowbar through the glass .
THREE Will startled back into consciousness , disoriented and thirsty .
It was so quiet-just the discreet drone of a computer fan and the second hand of the clock ticking in the adjacent bedroom .
He found himself slouched in the leather chair at the desk in his small home office , the CPU still purring , the monitor switched into sleep mode .
As he yawned , everything rushed back in a torrent of anxiety .
He 'd been hammering out notes for his closing argument and hit a wall at ten o'clock .
The evidence was damning .
He was going to lose .
He 'd closed his eyes only for a moment to clear his head .
He reached for the mug of coffee and took a sip .
Winced .
It was cold and bitter .
He jostled the mouse .
When the screen blinked back on , he looked at the clock and realized he would n't be sleeping anymore tonight .
It was 4:09 A.M .
He was due in court in less than five hours .
First things first-he needed an immediate and potent infusion of caffeine .
His office adjoined the master bedroom at the west end of the house , and passing through on his way to the kitchen , he noticed a peculiar thing .
He 'd expected to see his wife buried under the myriad quilts and blankets on their bed , but she was n't there .
The comforter was smooth and taut , undisturbed since they 'd made it up yesterday morning .
He walked through the living room and into the den , then down the hallway .
Rachael had probably come home , seen him asleep at his desk , and gone in to kiss Devlin .
She 'd have been exhausted from working all day at the clinic .
She 'd probably fallen asleep in there .
He could picture the night-light glow on their faces as he reached his daughter 's door .
It was cracked , exactly as he 'd left it seven hours ago when he 'd put Devlin to bed .
He eased the door open .
Rachael was n't with her .
Will , wide awake now , closed Devlin 's door and headed back into the den .
`` Rachael ?
You here , hon ? ''
He went to the front door , turned the dead bolt , stepped outside .
Dark houses .
Porch lights .
Streets still wet from the thunderstorms that had blown through several hours ago .
No wind , the sky clearing , bright with stars .
When he saw them in the driveway , his knees gave out and he sat down on the steps and tried to remember how to breathe .
One Beamer , no Jeep Cherokee , and a pair of patrol cars , two uniformed officers coming toward him , their hats shelved under their arms .
The patrolmen sat on the couch in the living room , Will facing them in a chair .
The smell of new paint was still strong .
He and Rachael had redone the walls and the vaulted ceiling in terra-cotta last weekend .
Most of the black-and-white desert photographs that usually adorned the room still leaned against the antique chest of drawers , waiting to be rehung .
The lawmen were businesslike in their delivery , taking turns with the details , as if they 'd rehearsed who would say what , their voices so terribly measured and calm .
There was n't much information yet .
Rachael 's Cherokee had been found on the shoulder of Arizona 85 in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument .
Right front tire flat , punctured with a nail to cause a slow and steady loss of air pressure .
Driver 's side window busted out .
No Rachael .
No blood .
They asked Will a few questions .
They tried to sympathize .
They said how sorry they were as Will just stared at the floor , a tightness in his chest constricting his windpipe in a slow strangulation .
He happened to look up at some point , saw Devlin standing in the hall in a plain pink T-shirt that fell all the way to the carpet , the tattered blanket she 'd slept with every night since her birth draped over her left arm .
And he could see in her eyes that she 'd heard every word the patrolmen had said about her mother , because they were filling up with tears .
FOUR Rachael Innis was strapped upright with two-inch webbing to the leather seat behind the driver .
She stared at the console lights .
The digital clock read 4:32 A.M. She remembered the crowbar through the window and nothing after .
Bach 's Four Lute Suites blared from the Bose stereo system , John Williams playing classical guitar .
Beyond the windshield , the headlights cut a feeble swath of light through the darkness , and even though she was riding in a luxury SUV , the shocks did little to ease the violent jarring from whatever primitive road they traveled .
Her wrists and ankles were comfortably but securely bound with nylon restraints .
Her mouth was n't gagged .
From her vantage point , she could only see the back of the driver 's head and occasionally the side of his face by the cherry glow of his cigarette .
He was smooth-shaven , his hair was dark , and he smelled of a subtle , spicy cologne .
It occurred to her that he did n't know she was awake , but the thought was n't two seconds old when she caught his eyes in the rearview mirror .
They registered her consciousness , flickered back to the road .
They drove on .
An endless stream of rodents darted across the road ahead , and a thought kept needling her : At some point , he was going to stop the car and do whatever he was driving her out in the desert to do .
`` Have you urinated on my seat ? ''
She thought she detected the faintest accent .
`` No . ''
`` You tell me if you have to urinate .
I 'll stop the car . ''
`` Okay .
Where are you- '' '' No talking .
Unless you have to urinate . ''
`` I just- '' '' You want your mouth taped ?
You have a cold .
That would make breathing difficult . ''
Devlin was the only thing she 'd ever prayed for , and that was years ago , but as she watched the passing sagebrush and cactus through the deeply tinted windows , she pleaded with God again .
Now the Escalade was slowing .
It came to a stop .
He turned off the engine , stepped outside , and shut the door .
Her door opened .
He stood watching her .
He was very handsome , with flawless brown skin ( save for an indentation in the bridge of his nose ) , liquid blue eyes , and black hair greased back from his face .
His pretty teeth seemed to gleam in the night .
Rachael 's chest heaved against the strap of webbing .
He said , `` Calm down , Rachael . ''
Her name sounded like a foreign word on his lips .
He took out a syringe from his black leather jacket and uncapped the needle .
`` What is that ? ''
she asked .
`` You have nice veins . ''
He ducked into the Escalade and turned her arm over .
When the needle entered , she gasped .
`` Please .
If this is some kind of ransom- '' '' No , no .
The tide would be upon them anytime now , and already the noise of the surf was getting louder as it inched closer .
Luther sat in the middle of the castle , surrounded by two-foot walls , digging trenches and passageways while his father dripped wet sand along the top wall .
It looked like disintegrating masonry .
Ten yards behind the castle , Luther 's mother and sister reclined in beach chairs under the shade of an umbrella , Maxine tearing through the last fifty pages of a Ludlum novel , Katie curled up sleeping in her chair , the eight-year-old a deep bronze-the only member of the Kite clan who could catch a tan .
They 'd driven onto the beach eight hours ago , the kids riding in the back of the old Dodge pick-up truck as Rufus drove all the way out to the southern tip of the island-a spit of sand jutting out into the sea .
At this time of day , they had it all to themselves .
A man had been fishing a few hundred yards up the beach for the last several hours , but he was gone now .
A fishing trawler loomed like a ghost on the horizon several miles out , nearly invisible through the haze .
`` If we build it big enough , '' Luther said as he packed the damp sand , fortifying the wall , `` maybe the tide wo n't knock our castle down ? ''
Rufus grinned at his son .
`` If we built this thing taller than me , the ocean would still bring it down .
There 's no stopping it . ''
Luther scowled .
`` But we worked so hard .
I like it .
I do n't want it to fall . ''
`` Just enjoy it while you have it , son .
By the way , that philosophy works for more than sand castles . ''
Luther came to his feet just as a breaker crashed twenty feet away .
Sea water raced up the sand , stopping just shy of the moat .
He turned around , glanced back toward the dunes .
The sun was just sliding down behind the live oaks on Ocracoke Island .
Only a few hours of daylight left .
It had been such a perfect day , and Luther felt a glimmer of sadness at the thought of it coming to an end .
He could see the ocean beginning to swell again .
Another wave coming .
He looked up at his father , saw Rufus smiling down at him , sweat beading out across the man 's forehead under the jet-black bangs that stopped just above his eyes .
The boy would always see his father like this , even in his old age .
Young .
Fit .
Strong and happy .
The breaker crashed ashore .
The sea foaming and fizzing like a bottle of spilt soda .
Rufus put his hand on Luther 's shoulder .
`` Here comes the first attack , my boy .
Man your battle station ! ''
Luther stepped up to the front wall and watched the water race toward them with a lump in his throat .
When the sun was gone , they got a bonfire going and roasted wieners over a bed of coals that Maxine had spread out in the sand .
Luther and Katie sat together eating hot dogs as the tide went out , the sound of the breakers now growing steadily softer .
When he was finished with supper , Luther leaned against his sister and stared into the flames , his belly full , watching the fire consume the wood of some ancient shipwreck .
He could feel the accumulation of sunlight in his shoulders-a warm , subtle glow .
His eyes were heavy .
`` You tired ? ''
Katie asked .
`` No . ''
`` Yeah , you are . ''
`` No , I 'm not . ''
`` It 's okay to be tired , Luther . ''
`` I know . ''
She kissed the top of his head .
`` Sorry about your castle .
You still sad it 's gone ? ''
Luther said nothing .
`` It was really cool , buddy , '' Katie said .
She craned her neck and looked him in the eyes , must have seen the tears welling , shining in the light of the fire .
`` Luther , '' she said , `` you 'll get to make another one .
I bet it 'll even be bigger next time . ''
Luther glanced up through the flames at his father and mother , Maxine wrapped in a shawl and cuddled up between Rufus 's legs nursing a cold beer .
The heat of the fire felt good lapping at his face .
He could 've fallen asleep to it .
Gazing up into the sky , he watched the sparks rising toward the stars .
Smelled the residue of suntan lotion on Katie that the sand had n't worn away .
Coconut .
He filled with a sudden and profound warmth for his sister .
Only three years older than he was and yet she understood him better than anyone else .
Better even than their mother .
He 'd just started to reach for her hand when he noticed the light .
For a moment , he mistook it for a lightning bug-it had that floating , bouncy quality-but then he realized it was the bulb of a flashlight moving toward their fire .
Still thirty or forty yards away , and he could n't have known how often he would dream of that image .
How thoroughly the fear of it would come to define him .
So innocuous-just a speck of brilliance coming toward him in the dark .
His mother must have noticed the diversion of his focus , because she said , `` What 's wrong , boy ? ''
Luther jutted his chin toward the light .
`` Somebody 's coming . ''
`` Probably just someone out for a late-night stroll , '' she said .
`` Can we spend the night here ? ''
Katie asked .
`` I do n't think so , '' Rufus said .
`` I need a shower . ''
Maxine chuckled .
`` And a soft bed , sweet-sweet . ''
`` Absolutely . ''
`` But it 'd be fun ! ''
Katie whined .
`` Another time , princess , '' Rufus said .
`` We did n't even bring our sleeping bags . ''
The light had nearly reached them now , Luther watching it approach and listening to the oncoming footsteps in the sand .
`` They 're coming over here , '' he said .
Now Maxine sat up and looked back over her shoulder .
Luther held up his hand to shield his eyes from the firelight .
Saw a man 's legs standing ten feet away-hairy and thick-that ended in a pair of muddy work boots .
Rufus was struggling to his feet now .
Luther heard his father say , `` Hi , there . ''
Luther glanced up into Katie 's face , did n't like what he saw-an intensity , a concentration he did n't fully comprehend .
He was missing something .
Events unfolding on some frequency beyond his experience .
His father spoke again , `` Evening . ''
`` What are you folks doing here ? ''
The man 's voice sounded strange to Luther-southern but not local .
Not friendly either .
He sat alone with his back to her at a west-facing table , with the town of Durango , Colorado , spread out before him in its high valley , specked with the icy yellows of cottonwood and aspen , enclosed by pine-wooded hills and bare shale hills and , farther back , the spruce forests and jagged peaks of the San Juans .
The sound of the patio door banging shut caught his attention .
He looked over his shoulder , and at the sight of her , slid his chair back from the table and stood-tall , sturdy , wavy silver hair , dark blues , and dressed like something out of Backpacker magazine-plaid Patagonia button-up shirt tucked into a comfortable pair of jeans , Livestrong bracelet , Teva sandals .
She felt that knot constricting in her stomach again , noticed his left hand trembling .
He seized the chair he 'd been sitting in to steady it .
`` Hi , Lawrence . ''
She knew he was fifty-two , but he 'd aged even better than his photo on the history department 's Web site indicated .
No handshake , no hug , just five seconds of what Abigail ranked as the most excruciating eye contact she 'd ever held .
Easing down into a chair , she counted three empty pints on the table , wished she 'd had the benefit of alcohol to steel herself for this meeting .
She rifled through her purse , found her sunglasses .
It was Halloween , and though the air carried a chill , at this elevation the intensity of direct sunlight made it pleasant to sit outdoors .
`` I 'm glad you came , '' Lawrence said .
A waiter costumed as a hula dancer approached the table .
`` Want a beer , Abigail ? ''
`` Sure . ''
`` They have a bunch of different- '' '' I do n't care .
Something light . ''
He said to the waiter , `` Bring her a Rock Hopped Pale . ''
`` Right on . ''
The whistle of a steam-powered locomotive blew somewhere up the valley .
Abigail saw the plume of smoke in the distance , heard the chugging palpitations of the valve gears as the train steamed south through the heart of town .
`` I do n't have any backpacking gear , '' she said .
`` Scott will outfit you . ''
`` Who 's Scott ? ''
`` Our guide . ''
The silence , uncomfortable as it came , crawled under her skin .
`` Pretty town you have here . ''
She could n't help thinking this did n't feel anything like she 'd imagined it would .
Having run countless versions of this moment through her head , they 'd all carried more gravitas .
She would scream at him .
She 'd hit him .
They 'd break down and cry together .
He 'd apologize .
She 'd accept .
She would n't .
Now she understood none of that would happen .
They were just two people sharing a table , trying to limp through the awkwardness .
`` I 'm curious , '' she said .
`` All this time , and now you contact me . ''
`` I 've followed your journalism career , subscribe to all the magazines you regularly contribute to , and I thought this ... expedition ... might be good fodder for your- '' '' But you have n't been interested in helping me since I was four years old . ''
Lawrence slugged back the rest of his dark beer , stared at the mountains , wiped the foam from his beard .
Abigail said , `` That came out more angry than- '' '' No , it 's fine .
You 've got standing to be as angry as you want . ''
`` I 'm not , though . ''
The patio door opened and the waiter returned with Abigail 's pint and another round for Lawrence .
When he 'd left , she raised her glass .
`` Lawrence , '' she said , `` here 's to our past .
Fuck it . ''
He grinned .
`` That easy , huh ? ''
`` We can pretend . ''
They clinked pints and Abigail sipped her golden beer .
`` So why 'd you come ? ''
Lawrence asked .
`` To be honest , I never expected a response to that E-mail . ''
`` Funny , I was just sitting out in the car , building the nerve to walk in here , and trying to answer that question for myself . ''
The sun ducked behind the mountains and Abigail shivered , the rocky slopes and snowfields blushing with alpenglow .
TWO At 4:30 the next morning , Abigail hurried across the parking lot of the Doubletree , moving toward a big Suburban , where four figures stood in the diseased light of a flickering streetlamp .
The air was perfumed with wet sage and resonant of the jabbering Animas River , which flowed behind the hotel .
They all turned at the sound of her footsteps , her eyes gravitating first to her father , then to the man standing beside him , who came only to his shoulders .
His head was smooth-shaven and his beard , just beginning to fade in , matched the gray of his deep and thoughtful eyes .
`` Emmett Tozer , '' he said as they shook hands .
`` Guess you could say we 're responsible for this outing .
Lawrence was nice enough to agree to take us out , share his expertise . ''
`` Abigail Foster , freelance journalist . ''
She turned to the woman holding Emmett 's arm .
`` June Tozer ? ''
June 's face lighted up and she took Abigail 's hand in both of hers .
`` Pleasure to meet you , Abigail . ''
She stood just over five feet , with a streak of white running down the middle of her chin-length brown hair .
A sweet energy seemed to exude through June 's fingers .
It made Abigail 's arm tingle , as if a gentle current were passing through .
`` And I 'm Scott Sawyer .
I own Hinterlands , Inc .
I 'll be your guide for this trip . ''
Abigail shook the calloused hand of the beautiful man in a Phish T-shirt and torn khakis , instantly liking what she saw , a feeling she sensed he reciprocated .
He was young , his hair bleached , probably just shy of thirty , and she discerned beneath his faded clothes the body of a seasoned outdoors-man .
They rode up toward the mountains in the dark , and Abigail was dreaming again before they left the city limits of Durango .
She slept soundly , and when she woke , the Suburban was ascending a steep , rocky road .
Scott and Lawrence talked in the front seat , but their conversation seemed muffled .
She swallowed .
Her ears popped .
The sounds of the straining engine and tires crunching over rocks came rushing in .
Abigail sat up , rubbed her eyes .
The dashboard clock read 6:01 A.M .
The sky had lightened into dawn , and they were climbing through a canyon , the one-lane road following the path of a stream .
Scott finally pulled over onto the edge of a meadow and parked beside a dinged and rusted Bronco that had long ago ceased to be one discernible color .
But despite its state of disrepair , it had somehow managed to drag a trailer up the road .
Abigail climbed outside after Emmett and June , heard the chatter of a stream .
They huddled between the vehicles , their breath steaming , the air redolent of spruce .
The driver 's door of the Bronco squeaked open , and a man stepped down into the frosted grass .
He was tall , his beard thick save for a few bare spots , his walnut hair drawn back into a ponytail .
Scott said , `` Meet Jerrod Spicer , my trustworthy assistant .
He 's an excellent outdoorsman , so you should know you 're all in capable hands . ''
Jerrod let slip a yawn , said , `` Sorry .
Still waiting for the coffee to kick in . ''
He walked to the back of the trailer , unlocked the doors .
`` Gunter , Gerald , time to go to work . ''
Abigail smiled when two llamas stepped down into the meadow and began munching on the grass .
She approached them , reached out to pet the black one , but it pulled away , affronted by the familiarity .
I had n't initially taken to Loman , but Karen had promised me I 'd eventually `` get '' him .
Now , $ 27,000 and one fiancee lighter , I stared at the ten-by-twelve-foot abomination that hung above the mantel : shit brown on canvas , with a basketball-size yellow sphere in the upper right-hand corner .
Aside from Brown No .
2 , four similar marvels of artistic genius pockmarked other walls of my home , but these I could suffer .
Mounted on the wall at the foot of the staircase , it was Playtime , the twelve-thousand-dollar glass-encased heap of stuffed animals , sewn together in an orgiastic conglomeration , which reddened my face even now .
But I smiled , and the knot that had been absent since late winter shot a needle of pain through my gut .
My Karen ulcer .
You 're still there .
Still hurting me .
At least it 's you .
The second ring .
I peered up the staircase that ascended to the exposed second-floor hallway , and closing my eyes , I recalled the party I 'd thrown just a week ago-guests laughing , talking politics and books , filling up my silence .
I saw a man and a woman upstairs , elbows resting against the oak banister , overlooking the living room , the wet bar , and the kitchen .
Holding their wineglasses , they waved down to me , smiling at their host .
The third ring .
My eyes fell on a photograph of my mother-a five-by-seven in a stained-glass frame , sitting atop the obsidian piano .
She was the only family member with whom I maintained regular contact .
Though I had relatives in the Pacific Northwest , Florida , and a handful in the Carolinas , I saw them rarely-at reunions , weddings , or funerals that my mother shamed me into attending with her .
But with my father having passed away and a brother I had n't seen in thirteen years , family meant little to me .
My friends sustained me , and contrary to popular belief , I did n't have the true reclusive spirit imputed to me .
I did need them .
In the photograph , my mother is squatting down at my father 's grave , pruning a tuft of carmine canna lilies in the shadow of the headstone .
But you can only see her strong , kind face among the blossoms , intent on tidying up her husband 's plot of earth under that magnolia he 'd taught me to climb , the blur of its waxy green leaves behind her .
The fourth ring .
`` Did you see the body ? ''
It sounded as if the man were speaking through a towel .
There was no emotion or hesitation in his staccato voice .
`` Yes . ''
`` I gutted her with your paring knife and hid the knife in your house .
It has your fingerprints all over it . ''
He cleared his throat .
`` Four months ago , you had blood work done by Dr. Xu .
They misplaced a vial .
You remember having to go back and give more ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` I stole that vial .
Some is on Rita Jones 's white T-shirt .
The rest is on the others . ''
`` What others ? ''
`` I make a phone call , and you spend the rest of your life in prison , possibly death row ... . '' '' I just want you- '' '' Shut your mouth .
You 'll receive a plane ticket in the mail .
Take the flight .
Pack clothes , toiletries , nothing else .
You spent last summer in Aruba .
Tell your friends you 're going again . ''
`` How did you know that ? ''
`` I know many things , Andrew . ''
`` I have a book coming out , '' I pleaded .
`` I 've got readings scheduled .
My agent- '' '' Lie to her . ''
`` She wo n't understand me just leaving like this . ''
`` Fuck Cynthia Mathis .
You lie to her for your safety , because if I even suspect you 've brought someone along or that someone knows , you 'll go to jail or you 'll die .
One or the other , guaranteed .
And I hope you are n't stupid enough to trace this number .
I promise you it 's stolen . ''
`` How do I know I wo n't be hurt ? ''
`` You do n't .
But if I get off the phone with you and I 'm not convinced you 'll be on that flight , I 'll call the police tonight .
Or I may visit you while you 're sleeping .
You 've got to put that Smith and Wesson away sometime . ''
I stood up and spun around , the gun clenched in my sweaty hands .
The house was silent , though chimes on the deck were clanging in a zephyr .
I looked through the large living room windows at the black lake , its wind-rippled surface reflecting the pier lights .
The blue light at the end of Walter 's pier shone out across the water from a distant inlet .
His `` Gatsby light , '' we called it .
My eyes scanned the grass and the edge of the trees , but it was far too dark to see anything in the woods .
`` I 'm not in the house , '' he said .
`` Sit down . ''
I felt something well up inside of me-anger at the fear , rage at this injustice .
`` Change of plan , '' I said .
`` I 'm going to hang up , dial nine one one , and take my chances .
You can go- '' '' If you are n't motivated by self-preservation , there 's an old woman named Jeanette I could- '' '' I 'll kill you . ''
`` Sixty-five , lives alone , I think she 'd love the company .
What do you think ?
Do I have to visit your mother to show you I 'm serious ?
What is there to consider ?
Tell me you 'll be on that plane , Andrew .
Tell me so I do n't have to visit your mother tonight . ''
`` I 'll be on that plane . ''
The phone clicked , and he was gone .
2 ON the muggy morning of May 21 , as raindrops splattered onto the sidewalk , I locked the door to my lake house and carried an enormous black duffel bag toward a white Cadillac DeVille .
Walter Lancing opened the trunk from the driver 's seat , and I tossed the bag inside .
`` Where the hell are you going ? ''
he asked cheerfully as we rolled slowly down my drive .
I 'd called him three hours ago , told him I needed a ride to the airport , and to pick me up by 10:30 , hanging up before he could question me .
`` Going away for a while , '' I said .
`` Where ?
That 's a big piece of luggage you got back there . ''
He was smiling .
I could hear it in his voice as I watched my house dwindle away in the side mirror .
`` Just away , '' I said .
`` Are you being intentionally vague ? ''
Beads of sweat had formed on his unshaven face , and he ran his fingers through his short gray hair .
He glanced at me , awaiting my reply as rain fell in sheets from the charcoal sky , followed by a growl of thunder .
`` Andy , what 's wrong ? ''
`` Nothing .
I finished my book .
I 'm tired .
I need a break-you know how it goes . ''
Childless .
But I 'm not lonely , she thought , turning on the television and pouring a healthy glass of chardonnay .
I 'm just alone .
There is a difference .
After watching Dirty Dancing , Karen treated herself to a soak .
She 'd closed the bathroom door and a Yankee candle that smelled of cookie dough sat burning in a glass jar on the sink , the projection of its restless flame flickering on the sweaty plaster walls .
Karen rubbed her long muscular legs together , slippery with bath oil .
Imagining another pair of legs sliding between her own , she shut her eyes , moved her hands over her br**sts , ni**les swelling , then up and down her thighs .
The phone was ringing in the living room .
She wondered if Scott Boylin were calling to apologize .
Wine encouraged irrational forgiveness in Karen .
She even wished Scott were in the bathtub with her .
She could feel the memory of his water-softened feet gliding up her smooth shinbones .
Maybe she 'd call and invite him over .
Give him that chance to explain .
He 'd be back from the Doubleday party .
Now someone was knocking at the front door .
Karen sat up , blew back the bubbles that had amassed around her head .
Lifting her wineglass by the stem she finished it off .
Then she rose out of the water , took her white terrycloth bathrobe that lay draped across the toilet seat , and stepped unsteadily from the tub onto the mosaic tile .
She 'd nearly polished off the entire bottle of chardonnay and a warm and pleasant gale was raging in her head .
Karen crossed the living room heading toward the front door .
She failed to notice that the cartons of steamed rice and sesame beef were gone , or that a large gray trashcan now stood between the television and the antique desk she 'd inherited from her grandmother .
She peeked through the peephole .
A young man stood in the hallway holding an enormous bouquet of rubyred roses .
She smiled , turned the deadbolt , opened the door .
`` I have a delivery for Karen Prescott . ''
`` That 's me . ''
The delivery man handed over the gigantic vase .
`` Wait here , I 'll get you your tip . ''
She slurred her words a little .
`` No ma'am , it 's been taken care of . ''
He gave her a small salute and left .
She relocked the door and carried the roses over to the kitchen counter .
They were magnificent and they burgeoned from the cut-glass vase .
She plucked the small card taped to the glass and opened it .
The note read simply : Look in the coat closet Karen giggled .
Scott was one hundred percent forgiven .
Maybe she 'd even do that thing he always asked for tonight .
She buried her nose in a rose , inhaled the dampsweet perfume .
Then she cinched the belt of her bathrobe and walked over to the closet behind the couch , pulling open the door with a big smile that instantly died .
A naked man with black hair and a pale face peered down at her .
He wiped his mouth with the back of his hand and swallowed .
The cartons of leftover Chinese food stood between his feet .
She stared into his black eyes , a strange coldness spreading through her .
`` What do you think you 're doing ? ''
she said .
The man grinned , his member rising .
Karen bolted for the front door but as she reached to unhook the chain he snatched a handful of her wet hair and swung her back into a mirror that shattered on the adjacent wall .
`` Please , '' she whimpered .
He punched her in the face .
Karen sank down onto the floor in bits of glass , anesthetized by wine and fear .
Watching his bare feet , she wondered where her body would be found and by whom and in what condition .
He grabbed her hair into a ball with one hand and lifted her face out of the glass , the tiniest shards having already embedded themselves in her cheek .
He swung down .
She felt the dull thud of his knuckles crack her jaw , decided to feign unconsciousness .
He hit her again .
She did n't have to .
2 ON the same Friday evening , Elizabeth Lancing lay in the grass at her home in Davidson , North Carolina , watching her children roughhouse in the autumn-cooled waters of Lake Norman .
Her husband Walter was on her mind .
Tomorrow would have been their seventeenth anniversary .
Pushing against her thighs , she rose and strolled barefoot down to the shore .
Jenna had wrangled John David in a headlock and was trying to dunk her younger stronger brother as their mother walked the length of the pier .
Beth sat down at the end where steps descended into the water .
She moved her fingers through wavy carbonblack hair just long enough to graze her shoulders .
Her fingertips traced the lines these last brutal years had channeled into her face .
Beth knew she was plain .
That was fine .
She 'd been plain her whole life .
What was n't fine was having the hard countenance of a fifty-year-old when she 'd just turned thirty-eight .
Lately she 'd noticed how lived-in she looked .
If Walter were still here maybe what few looks she had would n't be deserting her .
She rolled her jeans up to her knees .
A rogue jet ski skimmed across the middle of the lake , invisible save for its brief intersection with a streak of moonlit water .
Beth 's feet slid into the liquid steel , touching the algae-slimed wood of the first submerged step .
It was a chilly night and she rubbed her bare arms , thinking , October is the cruelest month .
Darling , has it been seven years ?
In one week Beth would have to contend with another anniversary-this coming Halloween night would mark seven years since Walter 's disappearance .
The writer and murderer Andrew Thomas had been a close friend of her husband .
Andrew 's old house still stood in the trees on the opposite side of the cove .
Someone had taken up residence there in the last year and it was strange to see those lights across the lake again .
The circumstances attending Walter 's disappearance had grown no less bizarre or mystifying through the passage of seven years .
On a cold and wet Halloween night in 1996 , he 'd sat Beth down at the kitchen table and informed her that their family was in terrible danger .
He 'd told her to take the kids away .
Refused to explain what was wrong .
Said all that mattered was getting Jenna and John David out of the house immediately .
She could still remember her husband 's eyes that night , carrying a component she 'd not seen in them before-real fear .
Out beyond the steps , bubbles broke the surface and the water-slicked head of Jenna blossomed out of the lake .
My last image of my love-I see Walter in the rearview mirror as I drive away with our children into the rainy Halloween darkness .
He is standing on the front porch signing `` I love you , '' his hands held high in the orange porchlight .
She never saw Walter again .
His white Cadillac was found two weeks later in Woodside , Vermont , parked near a dumpster , the driver seat slathered in his blood .
Beth knew in her heart that Andrew Thomas had killed her husband .
She could not begin to fathom why .
`` Come in , Mom ! ''
Beth descended two more steps , the water now at her knees .
`` It 's too cold , sweetie . ''
`` You 're such a wimp , '' Jenna taunted , treading toward the steps .
`` I might just pull you in . ''
`` Oh no you wo n't . ''
He ca n't even roll over . ''
I turned on a lamp and moved toward her .
`` You put him down after supper , right ? ''
She nodded , wild-eyed , her pupils dilated , chest billowing .
`` He went down fast .
Ten minutes .
Then I came down and we were talking by the fire for what ?
A couple hours ? ''
`` Yeah . ''
Vi shook .
`` This is n't right , Andy .
This is n't right . ''
I stepped around the crib toward the only possible exit from the loft-a two-by-two square foot window just under the pitch of the roof .
`` Is it open ? ''
she asked .
I knelt down , studied the hasps .
`` No .
But it is n't locked . ''
`` Was it ? ''
`` I 'm ninety percent sure it ... fuck . ''
`` What ? ''
Vi hurried over .
I touched the floorboards .
`` They 're wet . ''
A cold , sinking blast of panic ran through me .
`` Someone was up here while we were down there . ''
She looked at me , her eyes flooding .
A lump swelling in my throat .
`` He 's here , is n't he ?
He found us and took my son . ''
I headed for the ladder .
Immediately , I could tell something was off-a softness in my knees that I realized was numbness .
`` I do n't feel right , '' I said as I reached the ladder and started down .
Through her tears , Violet said , `` I 've been getting more and more lightheaded .
I thought it was the wine . ''
I descended carefully , a tremor in my legs threatening to upend my balance .
My mind redlined , the last sixty seconds such a nightmare I wondered if this was really happening .
I 'd had a dozen dreams in the last year that he 'd somehow found us , and every time I 'd wake sweating in the night , paralyzed by naked fear until that wash of relief would sweep over me , reality reinstated .
I 'd go to the kitchen sink , drink a glass of water , and wait for the nerves to recede .
My feet touched the floorboards at the base of the ladder .
Violet still cried hysterically in the loft and the numbness in my legs still grew , and I was still in this horrifying moment , either unable to wake , or worse , there was no nightmare to wake from .
My knees hit the floor beside my bed , and I reached underneath it .
Pulled out the shotgun , but it was too light , too small , and it was n't black metal but orange and green plastic .
I stared at the Nerf toy in my hands and said , `` What the f**k is happening ? ''
My voice sounded strange , as if it had been relegated to some alcove in the back of my head .
I turned and the room moved slower than the swivel of my head , the firelight leaving trails across my field of vision .
Violet stood at the bottom of the ladder , swaying on her feet .
`` He drugged us , '' I said , and she responded but I could n't interpret her words , which dissolved in a swarm of echoes .
I staggered to the front door and pulled it open .
Rain fell through the sphere of illumination cast by the porchlight .
Unflinching darkness beyond .
My breath steamed in the cold , and I could feel the chill on my face , but there was distance from it-a chemical apathy getting stronger by the minute .
I stumbled down the steps into a puddle , the freezing water seeping through my socks , realized I still held fast to the Nerf shotgun .
I threw it down in the mud .
My CJ-5 stood just beyond the light 's reach , and I moved toward it on rubber legs .
I kept a loaded hunting rifle in the back , had been hoping to shoot an elk that would feed us through the winter .
I collided into the door of the Jeep , fumbling for the handle .
It swung open and I climbed in , reaching back between the seats as the rain hammered the hard-top .
The Remington was gone .
He 'd taken it , too .
I stepped back down into the mud and stared at the porchlight thirty feet away , blinding me through the rain .
My head felt heavy , fingers too , like they were trying to pull me down into the mud .
I could hear Violet sobbing in the cabin .
It occurred to me that a loss of consciousness was imminent , and despite the effect of the drug , this recognition terrified me .
I wondered how long he 'd been watching us , how long he 'd been planning this night .
He 'd spent time inside the cabin-known how to take Max , the location of my shotgun , the rifle , and God knows what else .
I started back toward Violet , but after four steps , my face hit the frigid mud , and I stared sideways at the open door of the cabin , the interior walls awash in firelight .
Violet had gone quiet , now crawling toward the door .
I tried to call out to her but could n't muster my voice .
She slumped down across the threshold and did n't move .
My eyes had begun to close of their own will , the porchlight dimming away until it was nothing but a distant star .
Now the white noise of the rain faded , and with it the cold , and as I slipped under , I held onto a final , horrifying thought-this was n't the end of anything , certainly not my life .
This was possibly the last moment of peace I would ever know , because when consciousness returned , I 'd be waking up in hell .
Violet SHE opened her eyes and instantly shut them again .
The light was breathtaking , piercing .
Disorientation ruled her every sense .
She buried her face between her arms , but still the light crept in to scorch her retinas .
She thought , I 've been in darkness a long , long time .
And then : Max .
She wept , and the quality of her voice suggested that she was outside .
The ground beneath her was hard and ungiving-pavement perhaps .
There was no sound .
Certainly not the everpresent whoosh of wind moving through spruce trees to which she 'd grown accustomed during the last year .
She could n't recover her last waking memory , only the emotions associated with it-fear and loss .
Violet rolled onto her back and forced her eyes to open .
Thirty seconds of punishing brilliance , and then the world darkened and she saw that she was staring into a low , gray cloud deck .
She sat up .
Found herself in a neighborhood in the middle of a street .
Houses on either side .
She struggled onto her feet .
Weak .
Like she had n't stood in months .
So thirsty her head pounded .
She limped across the pavement toward the closest residence , then into the yard , through the tall grass , and up the creaking steps .
Banged on the front door .
`` Hello ?
I need help please .
Hello ? ''
Her voice sounded strange .
Unused .
A new banner scrolled across the bottom of the screen-45 dead in a mass shooting at a Southern Baptist church in Columbia , South Carolina .
`` Jesus Christ , '' Dee said .
Kiernan dragged heavily on his cigarette .
`` Something 's happening , '' he said .
`` Obviously .
The whole country- '' '' That 's not what I mean , love . ''
`` What are you talking about ? ''
He did n't answer right away , just sat there for a while , smoking .
`` It 's been coming on now , little by little , for days , '' he said finally .
`` I do n't understand . ''
`` I barely do myself . ''
Through the cracked window of their hotel room-distant gunshots and sirens .
`` This was supposed to be our week , '' she said .
`` You were going to tell Myra .
I was- '' '' You should go home , be with your family . ''
`` You 're my family . ''
`` Your kids at least . ''
`` What is this , Kiernan ? ''
She could feel an angry knot bulging in her throat .
`` Are we not in this together ?
Are you having second thoughts about everything or what ? ''
`` It 's not that . ''
`` Do you have any concept of what I 've already sacrificed for you ? ''
She could n't see all of his face in the mirror on the opposite wall , but she could see his eyes .
Gaping into nothing .
A thousand-yard stare .
Somewhere other than this room .
He 'd gone deep , and she 'd sensed it even before this moment , in the way he 'd made love to her .
Something held back .
Something missing .
She climbed out of bed and walked over to her dress where she 'd thrown it against the wall two hours ago .
`` You do n't feel it ? ''
he asked .
`` Not at all ? ''
`` I do n't understand what- '' '' Forget it . ''
`` Kiernan- '' '' Fucking forget it . ''
`` What is wrong with you ? ''
`` Nothing . ''
Dee pulled the straps over her shoulders as Kiernan glared at her through the cloud of smoke around his head .
He was forty-one years old , with short black hair , and a two-day shadow that reminded her so much of her father .
`` Why are you looking at me like that ? ''
`` I do n't know . ''
`` You do n't know ? ''
`` You and I are not the same anymore , Dee . ''
`` Did I do something or- '' '' I 'm not talking about our relationship .
It 's deeper .
It 's ... so much more profound than that . ''
`` You 're not making sense . ''
She was standing by the window .
The air coming in was cool and it smelled of the city and the desert that surrounded it .
A pair of gunshots drew her attention , and when she looked through the glass she saw grids of darkness overspreading the city .
Dee glanced back at Kiernan , and she 'd just opened her mouth to say something , when the lights and the television in their room cut out .
She froze .
Her heart accelerating .
Could n't see anything but the flare and fade of Kiernan 's tobacco ember .
Heard him exhale in the dark , and then his voice , all the more terrifying for its evenness .
`` You need to get away from me right now , '' he said .
`` What are you talking about ? ''
`` There 's this part of me , Dee , getting stronger every time I breathe in , that wants to hurt you . ''
`` Why ? ''
She heard the covers rip back .
The sound of Kiernan rushing across the carpet .
He stopped inches from her .
She smelled the tobacco on his breath , and when she palmed his chest , felt his body shaking .
`` What 's happening to you ? ''
`` I do n't know , but I ca n't stop it , Dee .
Please remember that I love you . ''
He put his hands on her bare shoulders , and she thought he was going to kiss her , but then she was flying through darkness across the room .
She crashed into the entertainment center , stunned , her shoulder throbbing from the impact .
Kiernan shouted , `` Now get the f**k out while you still can . ''
* * * * * JACK Colclough moved down the hallway , past the kids ' bedrooms , and into the kitchen , where four candles on the granite countertop and two more on the breakfast table made this the brightest room in the house .
Dee stood in shadow at the sink , filling another milk jug with water from the tap .
The cabinets surrounding her thrown open and vacated , the stovetop cluttered with cans of food that had n't seen the light of day in years .
`` I ca n't find the roadmap , '' Jack said .
`` You looked under the bed ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Last place I saw it . ''
Jack set the flashlight on the counter and stared at his fourteen-year-old daughter , pouting at the breakfast table , her purple-streaked blond hair twirled around her finger .
`` Got your clothes together yet ? ''
he asked .
She shook her head .
`` Go , Naomi , right now , and help Cole pack , too .
I think your brother got distracted . ''
`` We are n't really leaving , are we ? ''
`` Get going . ''
Naomi pushed back from the table , her chair shrieking against the hardwood floor , and stormed out of the kitchen down the hallway .
`` Hey , '' he shouted after her .
`` Cut her a break , '' Dee said .
`` She 's terrified . ''
Jack stood beside his wife .
The night beyond the windowglass was moonless and unmarred by even the faintest pinpricks of light .
The city 's second night without power .
`` This is the last jug , '' Dee said .
`` Makes eight gallons . ''
`` That is n't going to last us very long . ''
From the battery-powered radio on the windowsill above the sink , an old woman 's voice replaced the static that had dominated the airwaves for the last six hours .
Jack reached over , turned up the volume .
They listened as she read another name , another address over the radio .
Jack said , `` They 've lost their f**king minds . ''
Dee turned off the tap , screwed a cap onto the final jug .
The shop was small and quaint , and just by the smell of things , he could tell they brewed great product .
A bar down the right side faced espresso machines , grinders , blenders , bottles of flavor shots .
Three stools were occupied .
A few sofas and chairs lined the opposite wall .
A bookshelf of faded paperbacks .
Two old-timers were at war on a chessboard with mismatched pieces .
The walls displayed local artwork-a series of black-and-white self-portraits of some middle-aged woman whose expression never changed from photo to photo .
Only the focus of the camera changed .
He approached the cash register .
When the twentysomething barista with blonde dreadlocks finally noticed him , he thought he detected a flicker of horror in her pretty eyes .
Does she know me ?
In a mirror behind the register he caught his reflection and immediately understood what had prompted her look of disgust-the left side of his face was blanketed in a massive bruise , and his left eye bulged , nearly swollen shut .
My God .
Someone beat the shit out of me .
Aside from his hideous bruise , he was n't bad looking .
Figured he stood six feet tall , maybe six-one .
Short black hair , and a two-day beard coming in like a shadow across the lower half of his face .
A solid , muscular build evident in the way his jacket hung on his shoulders and the taut stretch of the oxford across his chest .
He thought he looked like some advertising or marketing exec-probably cut a damn striking profile when he was shaved and polished up .
`` What can I get for you ? ''
the barista asked .
He might 've killed for a cup of coffee , but he did n't have a dime to whatever his name was .
`` You brew good coffee here ? ''
The woman seemed confused by the question .
`` Um , yeah . ''
`` The best in town ? ''
`` This is the only coffee shop in town , but yeah , our coffee kicks ass . ''
The man leaned over the counter .
`` Do you know me ? ''
he whispered .
`` Excuse me ? ''
`` Do you recognize me ?
Do I ever come in here ? ''
`` You do n't know if you 've been in here before ? ''
He shook his head .
She studied him for a moment , as if appraising his candor , trying to determine if this guy with a battered face was crazy or messing with her .
She finally said , `` I do n't think I 've seen you before . ''
`` You 're sure about that . ''
`` Well , it 's not like this is New York City . ''
`` Fair enough .
Have you worked here long ? ''
`` Little over a year . ''
`` And I 'm not a regular or anything ? ''
`` You 're definitely not a regular . ''
`` Can I ask you something else ? ''
`` Sure . ''
`` Where is this ? ''
`` You do n't know where you are ? ''
He hesitated , a part of him not wanting to admit such complete and total helplessness .
When he finally shook his head , the barista furrowed her brow like she could n't believe the question .
`` I 'm not messing with you , '' he said .
`` This is Wayward Pines , Idaho .
Your face ... what happened to you ? ''
`` I-I do n't really know yet .
Is there a hospital in town ? ''
As he asked the question , he felt an ominous current slide through him .
A low-voltage premonition ?
Or the fingers of some deep-buried memory drawing a cold finger down his spine ?
`` Yeah , seven blocks south of here .
You should go to the emergency room right now .
I could call an ambulance for you . ''
`` That 's not necessary . ''
He backed away from the counter .
`` Thanks ... what 's your name ? ''
`` Miranda . ''
`` Thanks , Miranda . ''
The reemergence into sunlight made his balance falter and cranked his budding headache up a few degrees into the lower range of excruciating .
There was no traffic , so he jaywalked to the other side of Main and headed up the block toward Fifth Street , passing a young mother and her little boy who whispered something that sounded like , `` Mommy , is that him ? ''
The woman hushed her son and caught the man 's eye with an apologetic frown , said , `` I 'm sorry about that .
He did n't mean to be rude . ''
He arrived at the corner of Fifth and Main in front of a two-story brownstone with FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF WAYWARD PINES stenciled across the glass double doors .
Around the side of the building , he spotted a phone booth standing near the alleyway .
He limped toward it as fast as he could and closed himself inside the booth .
The phonebook was the slimmest he 'd ever seen , and he stood there thumbing through it , hoping for some revelatory breakthrough , but it was just eight pages of several hundred names that , like everything else in this town , held no meaning for him .
He dropped the phonebook , let it dangle from its metal cord , his forehead resting against the cool glass .
The keypad caught his eye .
He smiled at the sweet realization .
I know my home phone number .
Before lifting the receiver , he punched in the number several times just to be sure , and it seemed to flow off his fingertips with the ease of rote knowledge and muscle memory .
He 'd call collect , hope to God someone was home-assuming he had a someone .
Of course , he would n't have a name to give them , not a real one at least , but maybe they 'd recognize his voice and accept the call .
He picked up the receiver and held it to his ear .
Reached for the zero .
No dial tone .
He tapped the hook several times , but nothing happened .
It surprised him how fast the rage came .
He slammed the phone down , an upwelling of fear and anger expanding like a rushed ignition sequence , in search of some out .
Cocked his right arm back fully intending to put his fist through the glass , knuckles be damned , but the pain in his busted ribs blazed through everything and doubled him over onto the floor of the phone booth .
Now the throbbing at the base of his skull was surging .
His vision went double , then blurry , then to black ... * * * The booth was in shade when he opened his eyes again .
He grabbed onto the metal cord attached to the phone book and hoisted himself onto his feet .
Through the dirty glass , he saw the upper curve of the sun sliding behind that ridge of cliffs that boxed in the western edge of town .
The moment it vanished , the temperature dropped ten degrees .
He still remembered his phone number , practiced it a few times on the keypad just to be safe , and checked the receiver once more for a dial tone-silence save for the faintest crackling of white noise bleeding through the line that he did n't recall hearing before .
`` Hello ?
Hello ? ''
He hung up and lifted the phonebook again .
The first time , he 'd searched the last names , groping for any word that jogged loose a memory or incited an emotion .
Now he scanned first names , tracing his finger down the list and trying to ignore that pain at the base of his skull that was already creeping back .
The first page-nothing .
He stepped up to the counter and smiled at the barista , a hippie chick with blond dreads and soulful eyes .
`` Morning , Miranda . ''
`` Hi , Ethan .
Usual ? ''
`` Please . ''
While she started the espresso shots for his cappuccino , Ethan surveyed the shop .
The regulars were all here , including two old-timers-Phillip and Clay-hunched over a chessboard .
Ethan walked over , studied the game .
By the looks of it , they 'd been at it for a while now , each man down to a king , queen , and several pawns .
`` Looks like you 're heading toward a stalemate , '' Ethan said .
`` Not so fast , '' Phillip said .
`` I still got something up my sleeve . ''
His opponent , a gray grizzly of a man , grinned through his wild beard across the chessboard and said , `` By something , Phil means he 's going to take so damn long to move that I die and he wins by forfeit . ''
`` Oh , shut up , Clay . ''
Ethan moved on past a ratty sofa to a bookshelf .
He ran his finger across the spines .
Classics .
Faulkner .
Dickens .
Tolkien .
Hugo .
Joyce .
Bradbury .
Melville .
Hawthorne .
Poe .
Austen .
Fitzgerald .
Shakespeare .
At a glance , it was just a ragtag assembly of cheap paperbacks .
He pulled a slim volume off the shelf .
The Sun Also Rises .
The cover was an impressionistic bullfighting scene .
Ethan swallowed against the lump that formed in his throat .
The brittle-paged , mass-market edition of Hemingway 's first novel was probably the sole remaining copy in existence .
It gave him goose bumps-awesome and tragic to hold it in his hands .
`` Ethan , you 're all set ! ''
He grabbed one more book for his son and went to the counter to collect his cappuccino .
`` Thanks , Miranda .
I 'm going to borrow these books , if that 's okay . ''
`` Of course . ''
She smiled .
`` Keep 'em straight out there , Sheriff . ''
`` Do my best . ''
Ethan tipped the brim of his hat and headed for the door .
Ten minutes later , he pushed through the glass double doors under a sign that read : OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF OF WAYWARD PINES Reception stood empty .
Nothing new there .
His secretary sat at her desk looking as bored as ever .
She was playing Solitaire , laying cards down at a steady , mechanical pace .
`` Morning , Belinda . ''
`` Morning , Sheriff . ''
She did n't look up .
`` Any calls ? ''
`` No , sir . ''
`` Anyone been by ? ''
`` No , sir . ''
`` How was your evening ? ''
She glanced up , caught off guard , an ace of spades clutched in her right hand .
`` What ? ''
It was the first time since becoming sheriff that Ethan had pushed his interaction with Belinda beyond perfunctory greetings , goodbyes , and administrative chitchat .
She 'd been a pediatric nurse in her past life .
He wondered if she knew that he knew that .
`` I was just asking how your evening was .
Last night . ''
`` Oh . ''
She pulled her fingers through a long , silver ponytail .
`` Fine . ''
`` Do anything fun ? ''
`` No .
Not really . ''
He thought she might return the question , inquire after his evening , but five seconds of uncomfortable silence and eye contact elapsed and still she did n't speak .
Ethan finally rapped his knuckles on her desk .
`` I 'll be in my office . ''
He propped his boots up on the massive desk and kicked back in the leather chair with his steaming coffee .
The head of a giant elk stared down at him from its mount across the room .
Between it and the three antique gun cases behind the desk , Ethan felt he had the trappings of a country sheriff down cold .
His wife would be arriving at work right about now .
In her past life , Theresa had been a paralegal .
In Wayward Pines , she was the town 's sole realtor , which meant she spent her days sitting behind a desk in an office on Main Street that people rarely entered .
Her job , like the vast majority of those assigned to the residents , was mainly cosmetic .
Window dressing for a pretend town .
Only four or five times a year would she actually assist someone with a new home purchase .
Model residents were rewarded with the option to upgrade their home every few years .
Those residents who had been here the longest and never violated the rules lived in the biggest , nicest Victorians .
And those couples that became pregnant were all but guaranteed a new , more spacious home .
Ethan had nothing to do and nowhere to be for the next four hours .
He opened the book from the coffeehouse .
The prose was terse and brilliant .
He choked up at the descriptions of Paris at night .
The restaurants , the bars , the music , the smoke .
The lights of a real , living city .
The sense of a wide world brimming with diverse and fascinating people .
The freedom to explore it .
Forty pages in , he closed the book .
He could n't take it .
Hemingway was n't distracting him .
Was n't sweeping him away from the reality of Wayward Pines .
Hemingway was rubbing his face in it .
Pouring salt into a wound that would never heal .
At a quarter to two , Ethan left the office on foot .
`` That was the first order of business .
We 're already sucking in air from outside . ''
`` Any other pertinent bits ? ''
`` It 'll be a few days until our systems are fully powered up and debugged . ''
`` Where does our electron clock place us in terms of the Christian calendar ? ''
`` Today is February 14 , 3813 , in the year of our Lord . ''
Leven grins .
`` Happy Valentine 's Day , all . ''
Arnold Pope brings the Humvee to a full stop , its high beams shining against the back side of the titanium portal that has protected the tunnel , the superstructure , and all who sleep within from the world outside .
Pope kills the engine , leaves the lights running .
As they all step out of the truck , Pope walks around to the back and opens the cargo doors .
He takes a pump-action shotgun off the rack .
`` For God 's sake , Arnie , '' Pilcher says .
`` Always the pessimist . ''
`` That 's why you pay me the big bucks , right ?
If it were up to me , I 'd have my entire security team rolling with us . ''
`` No , we 're keeping this intimate for now . ''
Leven says , `` Pam , would you mind bringing your flashlight over ? ''
As she shines the beam onto the release wheel , Pilcher says , `` Let 's just wait a beat . ''
Leven straightens .
Pope heads over .
Ted and Pam turn to face him .
Pilcher 's voice is still gravelly from the drugs that revived him .
He says , `` Let 's not let this moment pass us by . ''
His people study him .
`` Do you all understand what we 've done ?
We just completed the most dangerous , daring journey in human history .
Not across distance .
Across time .
You know what waits on the other side of this door ? ''
He lets the question hang .
No one bites .
`` Pure discovery . ''
`` I do n't follow , '' Pam says .
`` I 've said it before , I 'll say it again .
This is Neil Armstrong going down the steps of Apollo 11 to stand on the moon for the first time .
The Wright brothers testing their flyer at Kitty Hawk .
Columbus walking ashore into the New World .
There 's no telling what lies on the other side of this portal . ''
`` You predicted that humanity would become extinct , '' Pam says .
`` Yes , but my prediction was just that .
A prediction .
I could 've been wrong .
There could be ten-thousand-foot skyscrapers out there .
Imagine a man in 213 AD stepping into 2013 .
'The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious . '
Albert Einstein said that .
We should all savor this moment . ''
Leven turns his attention to the release wheel , which he begins to crank counterclockwise .
When it finally locks into place , he says , `` Sir ?
Care to do the honors ? ''
Pilcher approaches the portal .
Leven says , `` It 's this latch , right here . ''
Pilcher throws the latch .
For a moment , nothing happens .
The lights of the Humvee cut out .
Only the beam of Pam 's meager flashlight cuts through the darkness .
Something under their feet begins to groan , like an old ship creaking .
The heavy portal door shudders and begins to creak open .
And then ... Light spills across the pavement , spreading toward them in a radiant stain .
Pilcher 's heart is pounding .
It is the most thrilling moment of his life .
Snow whisks inside across the pavement , and a shot of bone-chilling cold knifes into the tunnel .
Pilcher squints against the light .
When the four-foot portal is fully open , it frames the world beyond like a picture .
They all see a boulder-strewn pine forest in the midst of a snowstorm .
They move into the forest , tracking through a foot of soft powder .
It is beyond quiet .
The sound of falling snow like a whisper .
After two hundred yards , Pilcher stops .
The others stop too .
He says , `` I think this is where the road into Wayward Pines used to be . ''
They 're still standing in a dense pine wood , no sign of a road anywhere .
Pilcher pulls out a compass .
They head north into the valley .
Pines tower above them .
`` I wonder , '' Pilcher says , `` how many times this forest burned and regrew . ''
He 's cold .
His legs ache .
He 's certain the others feel the same weakness , but no one complains .
They trudge on until the trees break .
How far they 've come , he ca n't be sure .
The snow has let up , and , for the first time , he sees something familiar-those massive cliff walls that almost two thousand years ago surrounded the hamlet of Wayward Pines .
It surprises him how much comfort he finds in seeing these mountains again .
Two millennia is a long time when it comes to forests and rivers , but the cliffs look virtually unchanged .
Like old friends .
Soon , their party is standing in the dead center of the valley .
There 's not a single building left .
Not even ruins .
Leven says , `` It 's like the town was never even here . ''
`` What does this mean ? ''
Pam asks .
`` What does what mean ? ''
Pilcher says .
`` That nature has taken back over .
That the town is gone . ''
`` Impossible to say .
Maybe Idaho is now a huge preserve .
Maybe Idaho does n't exist anymore .
We have a lot to learn about this new world . ''
Forty-five probably cried .
He was only dead forty-five minutes before he rose .
The less time dead before the Reboot , the more humanity retained .
I was dead for 178 minutes .
I did n't cry .
Leb walked to the front of the shuttle and gripped the edge of the open door as he peered inside .
`` Ready , '' he said to the officer piloting the shuttle .
He pulled the door closed and I heard the locks snap into place .
We lifted off the ground as Leb slid into his seat .
I shut my eyes until I felt the shuttle land with a jerk .
The Reboots silently filed out onto the rooftop , and I resisted the urge to look back at Forty-five one more time as I brought up the rear .
I joined the line , pulling my long-sleeved black shirt off to reveal a thin white undershirt .
The cool air tickled my skin as I tossed the shirt over my shoulder , spread my legs , and held my arms out like I was trying to fly .
I saw a Reboot fly once .
He jumped off the top of a fifteen-story building with his arms spread , hit the ground , and tried to drag his broken body to freedom .
He made it maybe two feet before they put a bullet in his head .
A guard , a human who smelled like sweat and smoke , quickly patted me down .
He could barely keep the grimace off his face and I turned to look at the squat little buildings of the slums instead .
The guards hated touching me .
I think they flipped for it .
He jerked his head toward the door , wiping his hands on his pants like he could wash the dead off .
Nope .
I 'd tried .
A guard held the door open for me and I slipped through .
The top floors of the facility were all staff offices , and I ran down several flights of dark stairs and stopped at the eighth floor , Reboot quarters .
Below were two more floors Reboots were allowed to access on a regular basis , but under that it was mostly medical research labs I rarely visited .
They liked to examine us occasionally , but they mostly used the space to research human diseases .
Reboots do n't get sick .
I held my bar code out to the guard at the door and he scanned it and nodded .
My boots made little noise on the concrete floor as I made my way down the hall .
The girls in my wing were all asleep , or pretending to be .
I could see into every room through the glass walls .
Privacy was a human right , not a Reboot one .
Two girls per room , one in each of the twin beds pushed against either wall .
A dresser at the end of both beds and one wardrobe at the back of the room to share-that 's what we called home .
I stopped in front of my quarters and waited for the guard to call in the order for someone upstairs to open my door .
Only the humans could open the doors once they were locked at night .
The door slid open and Ever rolled over in her bed as I stepped inside .
She had n't been sleeping much the last few weeks .
It seemed she was always awake when I came in after an assignment .
Her big , green Reboot eyes glowed in the darkness and she lifted her eyebrows , asking silently how the mission went .
Talking after lights-out was prohibited .
I held up four fingers on one hand , five on the other , and she let out a little sigh .
Her face scrunched up with an emotion I could no longer stir up in myself , and I turned away to loosen the strap of my helmet .
I put it on my dresser with my camera and com and peeled off my clothes .
I quickly pulled on sweats-I was cold , always cold-and climbed into my tiny bed .
Ever 's pretty Fifty-six face was still crumpled in sadness , and I rolled to stare at the wall , uncomfortable .
We 'd been roommates four years , since we were thirteen , but I 'd never gotten used to the way emotion poured out of her like a human .
I closed my eyes , but the sounds of human screams pulsed against my head .
I hated the screaming .
Their screaming was my screaming .
The first thing I remembered after waking up as a Reboot was a shrill yell bouncing off the walls and ringing in my ears .
I had thought , What idiot is making that noise ?
It was me .
Me , shrieking like a crack addict two days out from a fix .
Rather embarrassing .
I 'd always prided myself on being the quiet stoic one in every situation .
The one standing there calmly while the adults lost it .
But at the age of twelve , when I woke up in the Dead Room of the hospital 178 minutes after taking three bullets to the chest , I screamed .
I screamed as they branded my wrist with my bar code , my number , and my human name , Wren Connolly .
I screamed as they locked me in a cell , as they escorted me to the shuttle , as they put me in line with the other newly undead former children .
I screamed until I arrived at the Human Advancement and Repopulation Corporation , or HARC , facility , and they told me screaming meant death .
Acting like I was still a human child meant death .
Disobeying orders meant death .
And then I was silent .
TWO '' DO YOU THINK THERE WILL BE A HOT ONE THIS TIME ? ''
Ever asked as I smoothed my black shirt down to my pants .
`` Did n't you think Seventy-two was hot ? ''
I asked , turning around to give her an amused look .
She liked it when I looked amused .
`` Kind of a jerk , '' she said .
`` Agreed . ''
`` I feel like we 've had a real dry spell . ''
I laced up my boots , genuine amusement sparking inside me .
New Reboots arrived about every six weeks , a time many saw as an opportunity to replenish the dating pool .
We were n't allowed to date , but the birth-control chip they shot into the females ' arms the first day suggested they knew that was one rule they could n't actually enforce .
For me , new Reboots meant only the start of a new training cycle .
I did n't date .
The lock on the door to our room clicked , like it did every morning at seven , and the clear door slid open .
Ever stepped out , looping her long brown hair into a knot as she waited .
She often waited for me in the morning so we could walk to the cafeteria together .
I guessed this was a friend thing .
I saw the other girls doing it , so I went along with it .
I joined her in the hallway and the pasty human standing just outside our door shrank back at the sight of me .
She pulled the stack of clothes she was carrying closer to her chest , waiting for us to leave so she could drop them on our beds .
No human working at HARC wanted to enter a small , enclosed space with me .
Ever and I headed down the hallway , eyes straight forward .
The humans built glass walls so they could see our every movement .
Reboots tried to afford one another a smidgen of privacy .
The halls were quiet in the mornings , the only sounds the occasional murmur of voices and the soft hum of the air-conditioning .
The cafeteria was one floor down , through a pair of big red doors that warned of the dangers inside .
We stepped into the room , which was blindingly white except for the clear glass that lined the upper portion of one wall .
HARC officers were stationed on the other side , behind the guns mounted to the glass .
Most of the Reboots were already there , hundreds of them sitting on little round plastic seats at long tables .
The rows of bright eyes shining out against pale skin looked like a string of lights down every table .
The smell of death hung in the air , causing most humans who entered to wrinkle their noses .
I rarely noticed anymore .
Ever and I did n't eat together .
Once we got our food , she split off to the table for the Under-sixties with her tray and I sat down at the table for One-twenties and higher .
The only one who came close to my number was Hugo , at One-fifty .
`` You have to give it time , Alexandra . ''
That 's so easy for you to say .
You 've got time .
`` Aunt Hannah , it 's been two years since they found the thing .
Nothing 's worked . ''
`` Granted , but the tumor 's growing relatively slowly .
Dr. Barrett said you could go several more years , and by then , there will be new drugs . ''
`` Or there might not be .
I just ca n't do this anymore . ''
She expected an explosion on the other end , but there was only dead air .
The silence spun out so long Alex thought their connection had dropped .
`` Aunt Hannah ? ''
`` I 'm here . ''
Pause .
`` When did you decide ? ''
`` After my appointment with Barrett last week . ''
`` Why now ? ''
Because my left hand shakes , Alex thought .
Because I ca n't smell anything .
Because I 've got a headful of teeny , tiny little rocks that are n't working and that means more regular chemo and radiotherapy and I am so sick of losing my hair and puking my guts out for nothing and doing schoolwork in bed , and I 'm not going into some hospice .
Because , for once , I 'm calling the shots .
But what she said was , `` I do n't think there will be a better time .
I need to do this while I still can . ''
More silence .
`` I imagine the school will ask after you .
Dr. Barrett will have a stroke . ''
Privately , she thought Barrett might be relieved .
No more having to look on the bright side .
`` What are you going to say ? ''
`` I 'll think of something inventive .
Will you call ? ''
`` When I make it back , '' she said , unsure if this was a promise she would keep .
`` To the car , I mean .
Once I 'm in the Waucamaw , there 's no cell coverage . ''
`` And what am I supposed to do ?
Hang a lantern from a tower ?
Twiddle my thumbs ?
Take up knitting ? ''
When Alex did n't reply , her aunt continued , `` I 've half a mind to call the police and have you dragged back . ''
`` What 's the other half say ? ''
`` That you 're stubborn .
That once you 've made up your mind , there 's no talking to you . ''
Her aunt paused .
`` And that I 'm not sure I blame you .
That is not the same as saying that what you 're doing is right , but I understand . ''
`` Thanks . ''
`` Do n't mention it . ''
Her aunt sighed .
`` Oh , Alex , do be careful , all right ?
Try to come back in one piece ? ''
`` I 'll be okay .
It 's not like I 've never backpacked before . ''
`` It 's not your competence I question .
Make a fire , live off the land , build a house out of twigs and chewing gum ... so like your father .
If the bloody zombies attack , you 're set . ''
`` Thanks , '' she said against the prick of tears .
Crying was not the way she wanted this to end .
`` I should probably go .
I love you , Aunt Hannah . ''
`` Oh , you bloody little fool , '' her aunt said .
`` Do n't you think I know that ? ''
They never spoke to each other again .
1 Four days later , Alex perched on a knuckle of bone-cold rock and whittled an alder branch to a toothpick as she waited for her coffee water to boil .
A stiff wind gusted in from the northwest , wet and cold .
Far below , the Moss River sparkled with sun dazzle , a glittering ribbon that wound through a deep valley of leafless hardwoods , silver-blue spruce , and the darker green of dense hemlock and feathery white pine .
The chilly air smelled chilly-which is to say that for Alex , it really smelled like nothing at all .
Which Alex was pretty used to , having not smelled anything for well over a year .
The cold was a surprise , but then she 'd never hiked the Waucamaw in late September either .
The Waucamaw Wilderness had always been a summer adventure with her parents when pesky no-see-ums , bloodsucking mosquitoes , and heat that could melt a person to a sweat puddle were her biggest problems .
Now , she was crunching over brittle ice and skidding on frost-covered roots and bare rock every morning .
The going was treacherous , each step an invitation to turn an ankle .
The farther north and the closer to Lake Superior she got-still two days in the future and nothing but a hazy purple smear smudging the horizon-the greater the risk of bad weather .
She could just make out , to the very far west , beneath a slate layer of clouds , the feathery , blue-gray swirls of rain blowing south .
But for her , the way ahead was nothing but blue skies : a day that promised to be crisp and picture-perfect , and something she was pretty sure her parents would 've loved .
If only she could remember who they were .
In the beginning , there 'd been smoke .
She was fifteen and an orphan by then , which was kind of sucky , although she 'd had a year to get over it already .
When the smoky stink persisted and there was no fire , her aunt decided Alex was having one of those post-traumatic things and shipped her off to a shrink , a complete gestapo-wannabe who probably wore black stilettos and beat her husband : Ah zo , ze smoke , zis is a repetition of your parents ' crash , yah ?
Only the shrink was also pretty smart and promptly shipped Alex off to Barrett , a neurosurgeon , who found the monster .
Of course , the tumor was cancerous and inoperable .
So she got chemo and radiation , and her hair and eyebrows fell out .
The upside : her legs and pits never needed shaving .
The downside was that the antinausea drugs did n't work-so just her luck-and she puked about every five minutes , driving the bulimics at school a little nuts because she was , like , this total pro .
In between treatments , she stopped puking and her hair , rich and red as blood , grew back .
A chronic headache muttered in her temples , but like Barrett said , no one ever died from pain .
True , but some days you did n't much enjoy living either .
Eventually , the smell of smoke went away-but so did the smell of everything else , because the monster did n't shrivel up but continued silently growing and munching .
What no one warned her about was that when you had no sense of smell at all , a lot of memories fizzled .
Like the way the smell of a pine tree conjured a quick brain-snapshot of tinsel and Christmas lights and a glittery angel , or the spice of nutmeg and buttery cinnamon made you flash to a bright kitchen and your mother humming as she pressed pie crust into a glass dish .
With no sense of smell , your memories dropped like pennies out of a ripped pocket , until the past was ashes and your parents were blanks : nothing more than the holes in Swiss cheese .
A stuttering beat , something between a lawnmower and a semiautomatic rifle , broke the silence .
A moment later , she spotted the plane-a white , single-prop job-buzzing over the valley , heading north and west .
Her eyes dropped to her watch : ten minutes to eight .
Sucker was right on time .
After four days , she decided that it was the same plane that made a twice-daily run , a little before eight every morning and about twenty minutes after four every afternoon .
She could pretty much set her watch by the guy .
The buzz of the plane faded and the quiet descended again like a bell jar over the forest .
The hollow thock-thock-thock of a woodpecker drifted up from the valley far below .
A trio of crows grated to one another in the pines , and a hawk carved a lazy spiral against the sky .
She sipped her coffee , heard herself swallow .
You want that leg to lock ? ''
`` I 'm fine , '' the boy protested , but Jed was already fussing with the heater .
He was angrier than he ought to be , and knew why .
`` Jed . ''
A hand on his shoulder .
`` Just tell me . ''
So he did , talking as he worked WD-40 back and forth , first on the hinges of the north door and then on the slider 's rails and rollers .
When he was done , the can was half-empty and the boy was quiet .
Jed said , `` You 're not surprised . ''
`` No . ''
Stirring through a toolbox , the boy selected a flex-handled socket wrench .
`` They say what branch ? ''
`` No one 's sure .
Might be Army , might be a bunch of different branches .
There have n't been any real military around here since the Navy packed their seabags and skedaddled out of that radio place down by Clam Lake .
My money 's on some of those private militias .
They were pretty damned organized before the FUBAR . ''
Tossing the WD-40 onto a shelf , Jed rested one cheek on the saddle of his Road King and watched as the boy tightened the propeller nut , testing the give and wobble .
The propeller was from an abandoned twin-prop , but the airplane engine was an antique and just powerful enough to turn his stripped-down , jury-rigged , ten-foot Spitfire into a halfway-decent wind sled .
Designed to float over ice the way an airboat skimmed shallow water , the wind sled should work , in theory anyway .
Nearly four months after the world died , Jed was still too spooked to crank up anything that loud .
`` Before I left for Baxter 's , Abel hinted that if I was to see any kid was n't a Chucky , I ought to bag him because he knew a couple hunters and they 'd take whoever I brought in . ''
He paused .
`` He said they 'd even take a Chucky , so long as it was alive . ''
`` For what ? ''
`` Dunno . ''
But he could guess .
He 'd seen enough in 'Nam , and his father had been a guest of the Japs after his plane went down over the Pacific .
The Nazi docs were n't the only ones who liked to experiment .
Sometimes Jed wondered which Jap bug-eater on Chichi-jima had been the first to take a good hard look at all those tasty American airmen and think beef on the hoof .
`` Why did n't you say anything ? ''
`` Might just be Abel flapping his gums . ''
This was a lie .
Their only neighbor in a seven-mile radius , Abel was on the wrong side of eighty and never ventured far if he could help it .
Still , when the old man had shuffled to the cabin , Jed had first dismissed the visit as nothing more than Abel 's looking for another handout before Jed took off .
Jed could even sympathize .
Abel was fifteen years older , alone , and forced to rely on whatever he could scrounge , snag , or snare .
In a winter that was shaping up to be pretty bad , that would n't be much .
Sparing food for his elderly neighbor was the right thing to do .
But then Jed saw how those old dog 's eyes darted here and there .
Cataloging subtle changes ?
A stray piece of clothing ?
A door open that was ordinarily closed ?
Maybe .
Times being the way they were , Jed and Grace had been very careful not to advertise about the boy , but Jed now thought that Abel guessed something was up .
Hell , Jed would n't put it past that old fart to rat them out on nothing more than a hunch if it meant a good meal .
Yet Jed had kept his suspicions about Abel to himself , and knew why : because the boy would leave , and he and Grace would be alone again .
Simple as that .
`` Whether they 're military , militia , or a mix , they 'll have plenty of volunteers if they 're doling out food and supplies . ''
Replacing the wrench , the boy wiped engine grease from his hands with a bandana from Jed 's Rolling Thunder days .
`` I think we both know what this means , Jed . ''
The words stung .
`` We could hightail it to the island instead .
No one 'll be there .
From the island , it 's another thirty-five miles to the Canadian shore , and seventy before you get close to anything like a town .
We 'll be invisible .
The only people who ever came to that island were kayakers-and not even that often because of the cliffs .
Just no good place to put in and not end up with your boat splintered into toothpicks .
But we could make it .
Now you got that sled working , all we do is get to Superior and put in . ''
`` Jed , it 's the middle of winter .
Even if we managed to get the snowmobile and Spitfire to Lake Superior without being caught or seen , as soon as the engine of either one kicks in , we might as well take out an ad .
Plus , there 's no way we can carry enough gas to refuel .
If we conk out in the middle of the lake , that means we walk a very long way and drag along whatever supplies we can salvage , which wo n't be much .
Once we 're on the ice , we 'll have no cover .
If we lose the Spitfire and then hit a patch of thin ice or water , we 're as good as dead . ''
`` Then why did we build the damn wind sled in the first place ? ''
`` You know why .
You told me yourself : if we need to move out of here fast , a snowmobile ca n't cut across Odd Lake-not over that stretch of rotten ice .
Only a wind sled would have a chance of making it .
Stick to the plan , Jed .
You do n't even know if you have to leave here .
If you do , then you and Grace kayak to that island of yours come spring .
Better yet , get yourself a sailboat once you make it to Superior .
There 've got to be plenty lying around , and it 's not like their owners are going to mind .
That way , you wo n't have to rely on anything with a motor .
A sailboat would be safer , and the weight you save not taking gas you can make up for with food and other supplies you 're going to need . ''
`` What about you ? ''
`` You know what I have to do . ''
`` Well , that 's just crazy .
It 's suicide .
You do n't even know if she 's still alive . ''
He saw the change in the boy 's face : a streak of pain , there and gone as swiftly as a comet .
`` What ? ''
`` You know that tight feeling you get waiting for a firefight ?
Well , that 's how I feel now , and it 's only getting stronger .
She 's alive and in trouble , Jed .
I 've got to leave , soon , or I 'm going to explode . ''
He did know the feeling .
Waiting around for an attack you knew was coming was an exercise in slowly losing your mind .
Some of the worst knock-down , drag-out brawls he 'd gotten into had been in that lull .
Jed let go of a long sigh because there was no use arguing , and he understood how the boy felt about the girl .
Hell , Jed would 've done the same for Grace .
`` Can you wait ? ''
When the boy hesitated , he added , `` A week , ten days at the most ; that 's all I 'm asking . ''
`` Can I ask why ? ''
All of a sudden , it was very hard to swallow .
`` Michael 's birthday .
I know Grace has held back enough flour and sugar to bake a cake .
It would mean a lot to her . ''
Someone .
For Tom , maybe .
No , no maybe about him at all .
She had n't wanted Tom to leave , but she could n't let him die in this place either-not for her .
It was the last good thing she could do .
She so desperately wanted him to live that it hurt- Then , no more seconds .
No more thoughts or memories .
No wishes or dreams or regrets .
Nothing .
End of the line .
She hit .
It was n't gentle .
Alex clobbered the water like a sledgehammer .
A jag of agony spiked her right ankle ; the impact blasted into her hips .
A cannonball of pain roared up her spine to detonate in her head .
Her vision blacked from the spinal shock .
For a second , maybe two , she was out cold , helpless as a puppet cut loose from its strings .
Ironically , the water that had just tried to kill her slapped her awake for round two .
Her mind came back in a scream as icy water jetted up her nose , gushed into her mouth , tried to flood her lungs .
Having clamped down to keep her from drowning , her throat was a knot .
She could n't manage a single breath .
Muscling through with sheer will , she gulped one shrieking inhale before the water wrapped steely fingers around her ankles and calves to pull her down , down , down below the surface .
No !
A fist of red , burning panic punched her chest .
Completely underwater and totally in the dark , she thrashed with no sense of where the surface was .
Caught in a whirlpool created by competing currents , she was spinning , whirling , tumbling .
Her right shoulder slammed stone , a stunning blow that sent electric tingles down to her wrist and numbed her fingers .
She tried swimming-where 's up , where 's up ? -but her movements were spastic , feeble .
Her back was a single , long shrill of pain .
She was n't sure her legs were even working .
Nearly out of air .
Got to do something .
Her throat bunched and clenched , trying to force open her mouth for air that was n't there .
A solid steel band cinched down tighter and tighter around her chest , squeezing , squeezing .
Desperate for oxygen , her heart pounded fast and then faster and faster and faster , a fist frantically banging her caging ribs : Let me out , let me OUT , LET ME OUT !
A sudden lurch .
Something had snagged .
She felt a jolt between her shoulder blades , and then a vicious cut as the Uzi 's strap sawed her throat .
Lifted by the current , her legs went nearly vertical .
She was still underwater-on the brink of drowning-but she was n't spinning anymore , at least for the moment .
I 'm caught .
The Uzi .
The metal plate barrel must 've jammed into the rocks .
If that was true , and the Uzi was locked tight and did n't move ...
If I can get myself turned around , I 'll have something to hang on to , get my head out of the water .
Straining against the current , she hooked her left hand around the Uzi 's strap , still cutting into her neck , and reached back with her right .
All she grabbed was water .
She tried kicking herself closer .
Come on , come on , come on .
Her chest was one bright blister .
Her throat was doing that urk-urk-urk , battling with her to give it up already , stop fighting , let go .
Please , God , help me .
Her fingers scraped rock , and then there was the Uzi , jammed in a V-shaped cleft of stone above her head , not by an inch or two but at least two feet .
No way to get her head above water , not while she was tangled up in the carry strap and on her back .
She would have to flip completely over .
In order to do that , she would have to release the death grip she had on that carry strap and trust that she was strong enough to counter the pull of the current .
That she could hang on with only her right hand for those few seconds .
Otherwise , she would drown .
She tried to let go of the carry strap ; she really did .
But her left hand , frozen in a rictus of panic , refused to obey .
She could n't do this .
No way .
She was n't strong enough .
The water was going to get her .
One last second of blind fear and then she would have to mo ns ters breathe .
Her mouth would snap open and her life would be over .
Then there came a voice , a phantom of memory , so small and distant , barely audible over her terror : Come on , honey , let go of the gun or you 'll die .
Jump , Alex , jump- But then , all at once , it was too late .
It was over , and even her father , as strong and sure as he was , could n't save her .
What was left of her air boiled from her lips , drawing with it the thin , fiery ribbon of a final scream .
Her mind shimmied , and she bled from her body , her consciousness detaching , letting go , hurtling up and away until she saw herself as if from a great height and through the wrong end of a pirate 's spyglass : faraway , helpless in the chop and churn , red hair streaming like bloody seaweed .
With no conscious thought at all , no planning whatsoever , her left hand slipped off the Uzi .
The greedy current instantly snatched her ankles .
If not for the hump of her right shoulder , she 'd have been torn free of the strap to swirl away and drown .
But it held , and then , somehow , she was twisting , flipping herself around .
She managed a single , wheezy , strangled aaahhhh , and that was all .
No match for the pounding current , her elbows unhinged , and she instantly submerged , her head going completely under .
Hang on , hang on , hang on !
A drill bit of fear cored straight into her heart .
As far as she could tell , the Uzi was locked tight .
With every shudder of the earth , however , the gun bucked like a bronco , and it was so far below the surface , she had to work for every breath .
Another kick , another gulping razor of air , and then down she went again .
The burn in her chest was less , which was to say that her lungs were n't on fire and her mind was clearing , slewing back into place .
But she could n't do this forever .
Although it felt like a century , she probably had n't been in the water more than two minutes .
Her waterlogged clothes and boots were so heavy she might as well have been wearing chains .
She was tiring , her muscles going as shivery as Jell-O , the icy water burning her skin , leaching heat and the last of her will .
Another kick .
A sobbing breath .
There was an almost continual stream of stone : small rocks that bit her arms and nipped her scalp and drew blood , which the water washed away as soon as she submerged .
Much larger chunks rained down , too , some so close she heard the whir and sploosh .
Maybe try to rest somehow , wait this out until things calm down .
Which was almost funny , in a bizarre way .
Calm down ?
She 'd be a Popsicle long before then .
If she had n't needed the air , she might 've laughed .
Kicking for the surface , she opened her mouth for a breath- And that was when she realized , as she sucked in not air but water , that the tunnel was still filling , the water level rising-and fast .
3 No .
Flailing , she fell back with a splash .
There we waited while innumerable readings were taken and various blasts of air , some cool , some hot , pressed down on us from vents in the ceiling .
At some point , the psychologist visited each of us , although I do not remember what was said .
Then we exited through the far door into a central staging area , with double doors at the end of a long hallway .
The psychologist greeted us there , but the linguist never reappeared .
`` She had second thoughts , '' the psychologist told us , meeting our questions with a firm gaze .
`` She decided to stay behind . ''
This came as a small shock , but there was also relief that it had not been someone else .
Of all of our skill sets , linguist seemed at the time most expendable .
After a moment , the psychologist said , `` Now , clear your minds . ''
This meant she would begin the process of hypnotizing us so we could cross the border .
She would then put herself under a kind of self-hypnosis .
It had been explained that we would need to cross the border with precautions to protect against our minds tricking us .
Apparently hallucinations were common .
At least , this was what they told us .
I no longer can be sure it was the truth .
The actual nature of the border had been withheld from us for security reasons ; we knew only that it was invisible to the naked eye .
So when I `` woke up '' with the others , it was in full gear , including heavy hiking boots , with the weight of forty-pound backpacks and a multitude of additional supplies hanging from our belts .
All three of us lurched , and the anthropologist fell to one knee , while the psychologist patiently waited for us to recover .
`` I 'm sorry , '' she said .
`` That was the least startling reentry I could manage . ''
The surveyor cursed , and glared at her .
She had a temper that must have been deemed an asset .
The anthropologist , as was her way , got to her feet , uncomplaining .
And I , as was my way , was too busy observing to take this rude awakening personally .
For example , I noticed the cruelty of the almost imperceptible smile on the psychologist 's lips as she watched us struggle to adjust , the anthropologist still floundering and apologizing for floundering .
Later I realized I might have misread her expression ; it might have been pained or self-pitying .
We were on a dirt trail strewn with pebbles , dead leaves , and pine needles damp to the touch .
Velvet ants and tiny emerald beetles crawled over them .
The tall pines , with their scaly ridges of bark , rose on both sides , and the shadows of flying birds conjured lines between them .
The air was so fresh it buffeted the lungs and we strained to breathe for a few seconds , mostly from surprise .
Then , after marking our location with a piece of red cloth tied to a tree , we began to walk forward , into the unknown .
If the psychologist somehow became incapacitated and could not lead us across at the end of our mission , we had been told to return to await `` extraction . ''
No one ever explained what form `` extraction '' might take , but the implication was that our superiors could observe the extraction point from afar , even though it was inside the border .
We had been told not to look back upon arrival , but I snuck a glance anyway , while the psychologist 's attention was elsewhere .
I do n't know quite what I saw .
It was hazy , indistinct , and already far behind us-perhaps a gate , perhaps a trick of the eye .
Just a sudden impression of a fizzing block of light , fast fading .
* * * The reasons I had volunteered were very separate from my qualifications for the expedition .
I believe I qualified because I specialized in transitional environments , and this particular location transitioned several times , meaning that it was home to a complexity of ecosystems .
In few other places could you still find habitat where , within the space of walking only six or seven miles , you went from forest to swamp to salt marsh to beach .
In Area X , I had been told , I would find marine life that had adjusted to the brackish freshwater and which at low tide swam far up the natural canals formed by the reeds , sharing the same environment with otters and deer .
If you walked along the beach , riddled through with the holes of fiddler crabs , you would sometimes look out to see one of the giant reptiles , for they , too , had adapted to their habitat .
I understood why no one lived in Area X now , that it was pristine because of that reason , but I kept un-remembering it .
I had decided instead to make believe that it was simply a protected wildlife refuge , and we were hikers who happened to be scientists .
This made sense on another level : We did not know what had happened here , what was still happening here , and any preformed theories would affect my analysis of the evidence as we encountered it .
Besides , for my part it hardly mattered what lies I told myself because my existence back in the world had become at least as empty as Area X .
With nothing left to anchor me , I needed to be here .
As for the others , I do n't know what they told themselves , and I did n't want to know , but I believe they all at least pretended to some level of curiosity .
Curiosity could be a powerful distraction .
That night we talked about the tower , although the other three insisted on calling it a tunnel .
The responsibility for the thrust of our investigations resided with each individual , the psychologist 's authority describing a wider circle around these decisions .
Part of the current rationale for sending the expeditions lay in giving each member some autonomy to decide , which helped to increase `` the possibility of significant variation . ''
This vague protocol existed in the context of our separate skill sets .
For example , although we had all received basic weapons and survival training , the surveyor had far more medical and firearms experience than the rest of us .
The anthropologist had once been an architect ; indeed , she had years ago survived a fire in a building she had designed , the only really personal thing I had found out about her .
As for the psychologist , we knew the least about her , but I think we all believed she came from some kind of management background .
The discussion of the tower was , in a way , our first opportunity to test the limits of disagreement and of compromise .
`` I do n't think we should focus on the tunnel , '' the anthropologist said .
`` We should explore farther first , and we should come back to it with whatever data we gather from our other investigations-including of the lighthouse . ''
How predictable , and yet perhaps prescient , for the anthropologist to try to substitute a safer , more comfortable option .
Although the idea of mapping seemed perfunctory or repetitive to me , I could not deny the existence of the tower , of which there was no suggestion on any map .
Then the surveyor spoke .
`` In this case I feel that we should rule out the tunnel as something invasive or threatening .
Before we explore farther .
It 's like an enemy at our backs otherwise , if we press forward . ''
She had come to us from the military , and I could see already the value of that experience .
I had thought a surveyor would always side with the idea of further exploration , so this opinion carried weight .
`` I 'm impatient to explore the habitats here , '' I said .
`` But in a sense , given that it is not noted on any map , the 'tunnel ' ... or tower ... seems important .
It is either a deliberate exclusion from our maps and thus known ... and that is a message of sorts ... or it is something new that was n't here when the last expedition arrived . ''
The surveyor gave me a look of thanks for the support , but my position had nothing to do with helping her .
Something about the idea of a tower that headed straight down played with a twinned sensation of vertigo and a fascination with structure .
I could not tell which part I craved and which I feared , and I kept seeing the inside of nautilus shells and other naturally occurring patterns balanced against a sudden leap off a cliff into the unknown .
The psychologist nodded , appeared to consider these opinions , and asked , `` Does anyone yet have even an inkling of a sensation of wanting to leave ? ''
It was a legitimate question , but jarring nonetheless .
All three of us shook our heads .
`` What about you ? ''
the surveyor asked the psychologist .
`` What is your opinion ? ''
The psychologist grinned , which seemed odd .
But she must have known any one of us might have been tasked with observing her own reactions to stimuli .
Perhaps the idea that a surveyor , an expert in the surface of things , might have been chosen , rather than a biologist or anthropologist , amused her .
`` I must admit to feeling a great deal of unease at the moment .
But I am unsure whether it is because of the effect of the overall environment or the presence of the tunnel .
Personally , I would like to rule out the tunnel . ''
Tower .
`` Three to one , then , '' the anthropologist said , clearly relieved that the decision had been made for her .
The surveyor just shrugged .
Perhaps I 'd been wrong about curiosity .
The surveyor did n't seem curious about anything .
`` Bored ? ''
I asked .
`` Eager to get on with it , '' she said , to the group , as if I 'd asked the question for all of us .
We were in the communal tent for our talk .
It had become dark by then and there came soon after the strange mournful call in the night that we knew must have natural causes but created a little shiver regardless .
As if that was the signal to disband , we went back to our own quarters to be alone with our thoughts .
I lay awake in my tent for a while trying to turn the tower into a tunnel , or even a shaft , but with no success .
Instead , my mind kept returning to a question : What lies hidden at its base ?
* * * During our hike from the border to the base camp near the coast , we had experienced almost nothing out of the ordinary .
The birds sang as they should ; the deer took flight , their white tails exclamation points against the green and brown of the underbrush ; the raccoons , bowlegged , swayed about their business , ignoring us .
His girly voice bounced around the large space .
The talking stopped almost instantly , heads swiveling first towards him , then at me , and then back to him again .
`` Thank you .
We have a huge amount of work that needs to be done in the next few weeks or months , and we need your help .
Everyone who is able-bodied will be expected to participate . ''
He gave the room a stern look .
`` The first order of business is getting rid of the bodies that we found in the refrigeration unit . ''
`` What bodies are they ? ''
asked a girl out in the crowd .
She looked scared , glancing sideways at a couple of her friends .
`` Adults who were brought here to die .
From before .
It 's not pretty .
In fact , it 's pretty disgusting , but it has to be done .
So please raise your hand if you feel like you have the strength to do some lifting and pushing and possibly digging . ''
Everyone from our original group raised a hand except Jenny who was sleeping on a blanket on the floor .
Her color was much better than it had been , but she was still too weak to do anything .
The first settler who 'd arrived , Derek , raised his hand and looked over at me , nodding once .
I nodded back to let him know I appreciated his efforts .
I could already tell he was going to take his oath of fealty to our community very seriously .
Several other hands in his group went up , but even from where I was standing I could see it was just wishful thinking on their parts .
Their arms were trembling and their faces going white with the effort of holding them up .
I walked through the crowd and stood next to Peter .
Everyone whispered as we discussed the situation privately .
`` You cool with me taking over and leaving you out here to do other stuff ? ''
I asked .
`` Do poodles doodle in the woods ? ''
I laughed .
`` You just said doodle . ''
`` I know .
Slap me , would you ?
I 've lost my mind . ''
I grinned .
Peter was definitely feeling chipper now that we 'd found what felt like it could be a real home for all of us .
I looked out at the kids and spoke louder .
`` We 'll do this in shifts .
First shift is eight people . ''
I surveyed the room .
`` Ronald , Jamal , Bodo , Derek , you ... sorry I do n't know your name , Gretchen , Winky , and me .
We 'll start .
The rest of you get some food , get some rest , and after a few hours we 'll come back to get a second shift going . ''
I turned my back to everyone and nudged Peter so he 'd join me .
`` Yes , my queen ? ''
he asked .
`` Say that one more time and I 'll eye gouge you . ''
`` Stop flirting with me .
What do you want ? ''
`` I just wanted to say that most of those people out there are going to volunteer , but they are n't ready to do any manual labor yet . ''
`` I noticed that . ''
Peter folded his arms .
`` So while I 'm gone , why do n't you do a little evaluation of everyone and see what they 're good at .
I 'm putting you in charge of city management . ''
I looked up in time to see a little sparkle come to Peter 's eye .
`` City management ? ''
`` Yeah .
Can you hack it ? ''
`` Pfft .
You 've obviously forgotten who you 're dealing with . ''
I reached over to hug him across the shoulders with one arm .
`` Not for a second . ''
I bent down to mess with the laces on my moccasin .
`` We need crews for medical care , gardening , cleaning , building and engineering , animal care ... '' I frowned , pulling my laces tight .
`` What am I forgetting ? ''
`` Uhhh , soldiers ? ''
I jerked my gaze in his direction .
`` Say what now ? ''
Peter sighed heavily .
`` Please do n't tell me you 're going to put your head in the sand and pretend like we do n't have a major problem with the canners still .
Barbed wire is n't going to do crap if they 're determined enough .
I 'm still worried they 're going to roll through here in tanks one day . ''
I stood again .
`` I know , I know .
Jesus , tanks ?
I just ... never mind .
You 're right .
But we do n't need just one group of people for that .
We need everyone in on that part of it . ''
`` Everyone ? ''
`` Yes .
Everyone .
Every single person in this place , no matter how weak or small , needs to be a part of our militia or whatever you call it . ''
`` Why ?
I mean , I 'm not questioning you , I just want to know what you 're thinking . ''
`` A chain is only as strong as its weakest link .
We are a chain , and I do n't want to bite the big one because some dipshit on the laundry team ca n't hold a gun . ''
`` Uhhh , okay , Yoda .
I 'll get on that . ''
`` Why Yoda ? ''
Peter studied me for a few seconds .
`` I think it 's the hair . ''
And then he walked away , clapping his hands to get everyone 's attention .
`` Okay , listen up , people ... '' I did n't hear anymore .
My body disposal group members had made their way over and looked like they were ready to go , so we all left the room , headed down the many hallways that would take us to the kitchen where the mass of corpses waited .
*** Ronald led the way to the kitchen .
It seemed only fitting , since he was the one who 'd discovered the bodies and unleashed their horrible stink on our new compound .
Halfway there he stopped , turning to face the rest of us .
`` I was wondering ... should n't we have some special gloves and clothes on when we do this ?
And get those bags ? ''
My face burned with embarrassment .
I totally should have thought of this myself .
He handed me a small stick .
I frowned at him .
`` You must be smoking something if you think I 'm going to chew on a piece of bark sent over from that witch . ''
Peter smiled .
`` Back with the living , are we ?
And it 's not a piece of bark .
Or maybe it is , but it 's like aspirin , she said . ''
`` Shut up , '' I said , snatching the bottle of water from him and gulping it down .
I refused to chew on anything Coli sent over .
One minute she was insulting me , the next she was offering me medicine .
I was n't in the right frame of mind to deal with her mood swings .
Peter left the sleeping area and came back with a basket of food , setting it down next to my mattress .
I leaned over to look in , seeing some bread and fruit inside .
I had zero appetite , so I pushed it away .
`` You have to eat .
That injury is n't going to heal if you starve yourself . ''
`` Who cares . ''
I laid back down , turning my back to Peter and Buster who 'd wandered in from somewhere and looked like he was thinking about diving into the basket .
`` No , Buster , '' admonished Peter , `` this is not for you .
It 's for Cranky Buns . ''
I ignored Peter , but Buster was not so easy to blow off .
He climbed over my middle and landed on my injured arm , looking for access to lick my face .
`` Get off , Buster , you idiot !
You 're sitting on my arm ! ''
Peter reached over and plucked Buster away , carrying him out of the hut and disappearing into the trees .
I heard him talking to the dog as he went .
`` She 's just sad , so we 'll give her some space to work it out ... '' I lost the rest when he got too far away .
I lie there feeling sorry for myself , crying for Bodo and wondering if I were ever going to see him again .
I could n't forget that the last time we 'd had a private moment together , he 'd said he was sure that I was going to tell him I loved him before he was done with his life .
But I had n't done it before we 'd left to do our recon and rescue mission .
I had n't told him , and now I knew that I should have .
I fell asleep listening to the sound of rain hitting the leaves around me and dropping into the swamp below , wondering if Bodo were somewhere out there , alive , thinking about me too .
My mind wandered to the more likely scenario - that he was dead , his body left alone and cold , lying in the wreckage of our battle .
*** It was late afternoon when I woke again .
This time it was Coli sitting nearby , waiting for me to open my eyes .
She was on the mattress next to me , staring at me silently .
I took one look at her and closed my eyes again .
`` Geez , Coli .
Do you have any idea how creepy it is to wake up and find you staring at me like that ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Well , trust me .
It 's a lot creepy .
Go away . ''
I rolled over , turning my back to her .
`` Kowi wants to see you at dinner . ''
`` I 'm busy . ''
`` Busy feeling sorry for yourself .
Yeah .
I can see that . ''
`` Go to hell , Coli . ''
`` Already there . ''
Tell me about it .
I refused to comment out loud , hoping she 'd eventually give up trying to engage me in conversation and leave .
`` You have to get up and go to the bathroom , eventually .
Do n't you have to go now ? ''
Now that she 'd mentioned it , I realized that I did really have to pee .
Damn her .
`` Come on , '' she said , standing .
`` I 'll walk with you . ''
I sat up slowly , battling the dizziness .
`` I do n't need a frigging escort to the outhouse . ''
`` You have n't eaten in two days , you lost a lot of blood , and you look like hell .
I think you do need an escort , and so does Peter . ''
`` Screw Peter . ''
`` I 'll pass along the message .
Now come on . ''
The rain had finally let up , so at least my walk to the toilet was n't going to get me soaked .
It was too late in the day for the sun to do much more than light up the really wet landscape , but it was a nice reprieve from the blanketing grayness that I 'd seen through slits in my eyes over the last who knew how many hours .
Lucky for us , the chickee hut roofs were so well-made that not a single drop of the monsoon that had dumped on us had made it through .
At least I had a dry mattress going for me .
I stumbled on the path , and Coli caught me .
I pushed her away after I 'd regained my footing , and she laughed .
`` What 's so funny ?
Me falling down ? ''
`` No .
You refusing help when you so obviously need it . ''
I scowled at her , refusing to admit she was right .
`` I do n't like having help from you . ''
`` And I do n't particularly like giving it to you .
But we do things out here that we find unpleasant all the time , so ... '' She shrugged .
I had to smile .
She was so rude , it was comical .
She totally did n't give a crap what I thought either , which was kind of nice in a way .
I needed brutal honesty right now .
`` What are you smiling at ? ''
she asked , scowling .
`` You .
You 're like a cactus you 're so prickly . ''
`` You 're not all that warm and fuzzy yourself . ''
`` Yeah , well , if your boyfriend had n't come back from the fight , I do n't think you 'd be all that cheery right now either . ''
`` So he 's your boyfriend now ?
We 're talking about Bodo , right ? ''
I stopped walking , my smile disappearing in an instant .
`` What 's that supposed to mean ? ''
She stopped and faced me , her legs spread apart and her eyebrow raised in challenge .
`` Well , before you left , you kept making sure all the guys around here knew he was n't your boyfriend .
Now he 's missing and suddenly he is .
Seems like you 've had a change of heart , that 's all I 'm saying . ''
I shook my head slowly in disbelief .
What a bitch .
Kowi turned towards me .
I could see the movement out of the corner of my eye , but I stayed facing the glowing orb of the sun that had made it above the horizon .
It felt weird , being out here alone with him , the two of us experiencing this poetic moment .
His girlfriend would probably want to smash my face if she were here to see it , and who knew what Bodo would think .
I still was n't sure that I cared what Bodo thought , but I knew I did n't want any drama with a jealous Coli .
She was a cranky wench on her best days .
I took a step forward to put more distance between us .
`` So what 's the scoop ? ''
I asked .
`` When do you want to start training ? ''
`` Today .
We have a place on drier land we can use .
How many can you handle ? ''
`` How many do you have ? ''
I turned to face him so he would n't think I was being rude .
His expression revealed nothing about what he might be feeling .
`` The Miccosukee have thirty-five guys and twenty girls . ''
`` What about the others ? ''
`` The Creek ?
I 'm not sure .
Probably about the same . ''
`` Well , that 's way too many to do at once . ''
`` I figured .
So we 'll divide them up .
Just tell me how many you can do at a time , whether you want them mixed or guys separate from the girls , and how many sessions you think you can manage in a day .
I 'm sure it 's very tiring , so if you can only do one or two , that 's fine .
We 'll understand . ''
I shrugged .
Yeah , it was tiring .
But here there was food to fuel the calorie burn , and I needed to work hard to get my butt back in shape ; I 'd gotten lax in the last few months .
Living alone in my house , isolated the way I had been , caused me to neglect my training .
I was just lucky my dad had ingrained it in my life for so many years before he died .
Otherwise , I would have never survived the two canner attacks I 'd dealt with before arriving here .
`` I 'll work with ten at a time , max .
Smaller groups are better and they should always have an even number so everyone can have a partner .
Let 's keep the guys and girls separate to start . ''
`` How many sessions a day can you handle ? ''
`` I do n't know , really .
I 've never taught before .
Maybe three ?
Let 's try it like that and then I 'll see how it goes . ''
I looked at him , searching his face for any kind of detectible emotion .
`` I assume I 'm going to be working with the Creek too , right ? ''
I was hoping he had n't changed his mind about working with them in some sort of cohesive group .
`` Yeah .
I think that 's the idea .
We 'll find out for sure today .
Maybe tomorrow .
I expect Trip to show up at some point . ''
`` He does n't seem the type to keep other people 's schedules . ''
`` You 've already figured him out , I see . ''
`` Guys like him are n't that difficult to see through . ''
`` Do n't count Trip out so easily .
He might surprise you .
We used to be friends .
I know him pretty well , or I did , anyway .
Just do n't let him get away with anything .
He 's going to try , you know . ''
I smiled slightly .
`` I would n't expect anything less . ''
`` Then you 'll get along just fine with him . ''
Kowi turned and headed back in the direction we came .
`` Breakfast is on its way if you 're hungry . ''
`` Yeah .
I 'll catch up , '' I said , waiting for him to get out of sight .
I had n't taken my morning pee yet and I was desperate for a bit of cover and a leaf .
A few seconds later I heard his voice coming through the trees .
`` We have outhouses for that , you know ! ''
My face burned red as I shouted back .
`` Directions ? ! ''
`` Follow me ! ''
I sighed heavily , shaking my head .
One of these days I was not going to feel awkward and out of place in this tribe .
At least , I hoped so .
*** The outhouse was located quite a distance from our hut , on a piece of dry land .
Kowi explained as we walked .
`` We needed to keep it away from our water sources and the wildlife that we hunt that use the waterways .
We 'll move this one when it 's full .
The whole structure can be taken down and set up somewhere else . ''
I went inside and saw that it was essentially a hole in the ground with a bench over it .
The bench seat had a circle cut out of it in the middle for resting a person 's butt .
The whole setup was surrounded by flimsy walls .
The bench could be lifted up for guys to pee , which I sincerely hoped they did since there was no such thing as toilet paper here to clean it with .
There was a stack of homemade paper nearby that looked really scratchy , but I was more than a little excited about being able to use something that was n't leaves for a change .
As soon as I finished my business , I found out firsthand that it was quite rough , but it was better than the alternative .
I also noticed that the inside of the outhouse did n't smell much better than a construction site toilet , but it did the trick .
I was going to have to figure out a way to not need to go during the night , though .
It was too far of a trek otherwise , and the mosquitoes would have me in lumps from head to toe before I got there and back , and my butt would n't be spared , either .
I could n't imagine the special torture a bunch of skeeter bites on the hind end would be .
Kowi walked me back to the hut , and I took note of the path we took , feeling confident I could find it again on my own .
By the time we reached our destination , the sun was fully above the horizon , blazing with its warmth .
Peter and Bodo were awake , busy eating breakfast - the cold remnants of last night 's dinner .
I was happy to have them , since it beat starchy , plain noodles any day .
I picked up my wood platter and stood in the living room of my hut , eating while I talked .
`` So what time do you want to start ? ''
I asked .
`` I 'll have your first group come get you in about an hour .
Do you care who 's in it ? ''
`` No .
Whoever .
My hand went nervously to the ring on a chain that hung at my neck - my dad 's old wedding ring that he 'd given me just before he went away for good .
*** I walked out into my backyard and closed the door behind me softly .
An earlier check of the street in front of my house said it was empty .
I 'd stayed hidden in my bushes for five full minutes , just to be sure no one was lying low , scoping me out .
Five in the morning was apparently still too early for the raiders ; it was nice to know that habit had n't yet changed .
Once I was sure I was n't being watched here in the backyard either , I went to the fence that separated my yard from the mystery neighbor 's place .
I peered over the top , my face hidden by high bushes on their side .
I could see the back of their house , no movement coming from within .
I used the horizontal board that was about two feet off the ground , holding the vertical fence parts together , as leverage .
One foot there gave me the little bit of lift I needed to get my other leg over the top .
I used my abs and strong arm muscles to pull myself the rest of the way over .
It was n't pretty , but it did the job , landing me on the ground behind the bushes .
I stayed there for a couple of minutes , calming myself and checking for any signs of having been seen .
There was nothing - still no movement from the windows at the back of the house .
I slowly crept from the bushes to the back door , checking the handle to see if it was unlocked .
It was n't .
I shook my head at all the people who 'd locked their doors to die inside .
I hoped these neighbors had done the better thing , and gone to the hospital to do that bit of nasty business , like my dad had .
I was grateful for his final gesture , even though at the time it was the worst day of my life , watching him drive away like that and leave me all by myself .
I do n't think I could have buried him in the backyard .
That would have been too much , and like he had said , I would n't have been able to leave him behind when it was time to go .
He wanted me to be mobile and flexible - memories should n't be tying me down to a sinking ship , he 'd said .
I wrapped the hand towel I 'd brought with me around my fist and punched the glass panel nearest the door handle to break it , reaching through the hole I 'd made to unlock the deadbolt .
I opened the door slowly and stepped inside .
I left the door open , tiptoeing through the back hall and into the kitchen .
I do n't know why I was trying to be so quiet .
I guess knowing I was breaking into someone 's house made me feel like I should sneak .
I took a whiff of the air , testing it for the smell of rotten flesh .
Nope , no dead bodies in here for sure .
That was a relief .
I 'd smelled that odor now many times , when the wind blew strongly .
Whenever that happened , I wondered how long it would be before that smell stopped being a regular part of my new life .
I found the pantry and opened it , expecting to find it full .
But it was nearly empty too .
`` What the hell ? ''
I said out into the room .
The raiders must have beat me to this place , but it was weird because when they came , they usually made a big mess ; and this place was spotless .
Everything on the counter was lined up with regimented perfection .
Even the hand towels were hanging on the oven door handle as if they 'd just been laundered and ironed , put there for the evening 's dinner preparation .
I shut the door to the pantry and nearly dropped a doodle in my drawers when I realized I was n't alone in the house .
*** '' Holy shit , dude , put that thing away , '' I said , feeling my blood pressure shoot up like a rocket and my heart start to beat triple-time .
I was staring down the barrel of a big ass handgun .
It had to be a .357 Magnum or something .
The kid could barely hold it up , it was so heavy .
`` What do you think you 're doing breaking into my house ?
You know you 're not supposed to do that . ''
His voice sounded like a girl 's , it was so soft and high-pitched .
How had he survived if he had n't entered puberty yet ?
`` I did n't know anyone lived here , I swear .
I thought I knew all the kids who went to Winter Park High in this neighborhood , but I do n't recognize you . ''
`` Yeah , well , I did n't go there .
I went to Seminole High .
But that does n't give you the right to break my window and try to steal my stuff . ''
`` I 'm sorry , like I said , I did n't know this place was occupied . ''
I frowned at the kid .
His hands were shaking and he was resting his elbows on his stomach to give his arms more support .
I guess he was n't twelve , being in high school , but he sure was small for his age .
`` Would you put that stupid thing down before you shoot me , please ? ''
`` Why ?
So you can eat me and my food ? ''
I laughed .
I could n't help it .
`` Eat you ?
What the hell are you talking about ? ''
`` The canners .
You 're one of them .
Where are your friends ? ''
His eyes darted to the space behind me .
I could tell he wanted to turn around and look behind himself too because his eyes kept jerking to the side along with his one shoulder , but he was too afraid to take his eyes off me .
He was seriously freaked out .
I shook my head , trying to make any sense at all of what this kid was saying .
I looked at him a little closer , trying to figure out if maybe he 'd lost his marbles , being alone for these last couple months .
But he seemed mostly normal , if not a bit too thin , even for someone who was on a survivor 's diet .
`` I 'm not one of anything .
I 'm just me , trying to find some food .
I 'm tired of noodles and beans , that 's all .
But I 'll go back to my house now and leave you alone . ''
`` Ha !
So you can come back at night and eat my heart ?
I do n't think so . ''
I smiled .
This kid had no idea who he was messing with .
The only reason I had n't taken that gun away from him and immobilized him with a quick jab to the throat was because I did n't want him freaking out any more than he already was .
Plus , I hated hurting people who were nearly half my size and almost that small in weight .
`` Dude , what are you going to do ?
Shoot me ? ''
`` Maybe , '' he said , stubbornly .
`` Yeah , right .
I do n't think so .
Not today , anyway . ''
I turned to go .
`` Wait ! ''
he said , a desperate tone in his voice .
`` What ? ''
I said , half turning .
`` Did you say you have noodles ? ''
`` Yeah .
So ? ''
`` I have sauce . ''
My eyes widened .
Her eyes came back to their lively selves .
`` Sardu will come .
Pick-pick-pick . ''
And finish he did , every last remaining beet string .
The bowl was empty and the story was over , but his belly and his mind were full .
His eating pleased his bubbeh , and her face was , for him , as clear an expression of love that existed .
In these private moments at the rickety family table , they communed , the two of them , sharing food of the heart and the soul .
A decade later , the Setrakian family would be driven from their woodwork shop and their village , though not by Sardu .
A German officer was billeted in their home , and the man , softened by his hosts ' utter humanity , having broken bread with them over that same wobbly table , one evening warned them not to follow the next day 's order to assemble at the train station , but to leave their home and their village that very night .
Which they did , the entire extended family together-all eight of them-journeying into the countryside with as much as they could carry .
Bubbeh slowed them down .
Worse-she knew that she was slowing them down , knew that her presence placed the entire family at risk , and cursed herself and her old , tired legs .
The rest of the family eventually went on ahead , all except for Abraham-now a strong young man and full of promise , a master carver at such a young age , a scholar of the Talmud , with a special interest in the Zohar , the secrets of Jewish mysticism-who stayed behind , at her side .
When word reached them that the others had been arrested at the next town , and had to board a train for Poland , his bubbeh , wracked with guilt , insisted that , for Abraham 's sake , she be allowed to turn herself in .
`` Run , Abraham .
Run from the Nazi .
As from Sardu .
Escape . ''
But he would not have it .
He would not be separated from her .
In the morning he found her on the floor of the room they had shared-in the house of a sympathetic farmer-having fallen off in the night , her lips charcoal black and peeling and her throat black through her neck , dead from the animal poison she had ingested .
With his host family 's gracious permission , Abraham Setrakian buried her beneath a flowering silver birch .
Patiently , he carved her a beautiful wooden marker , full of flowers and birds and all the things that had made her happiest .
And he cried and cried for her-and then run he did .
He ran hard from the Nazis , hearing a pick-pick-pick all the time at his back ... And evil followed closely behind .
THE BEGINNING N323RG Cockpit Voice Recorder Excerpts , NTSB transcription , Flight 753 , Berlin ( TXL ) to New York ( JFK ) , 9/24/10 : 2049:31 [ Public-address microphone is switched ON . ]
CAPT .
PETER J. MOLDES : `` Ah , folks , this is Captain Moldes up in the flight deck .
We should be touching down on the ground in a few minutes for an on-time arrival .
Just wanted to take a moment and let you know we certainly 'preciate you choosing Regis Airlines , and that , on behalf of First Officer Nash and myself and your cabin crew , hope you come back and travel with us again real soon ... '' 2049:44 [ Public-address microphone is switched OFF . ]
CAPT .
PETER J. MOLDES : `` ... so we can all keep our jobs . ''
[ cockpit laughter ] 2050:01 Air-traffic control New York ( JFK ) : `` Regis 7-5-3 heavy , approaching left , heading 1-0-0 .
Clear to land on 13R . ''
CAPT .
PETER J. MOLDES : `` Regis 7-5-3 heavy , approaching left , 1-0-0 , landing on runway 13R , we have it . ''
2050:15 [ Public-address microphone is switched ON . ]
CAPT .
PETER J. MOLDES : `` Flight attendants , prepare for landing . ''
2050:18 [ Public-address microphone is switched OFF . ]
FIRST OFFICER RONALD W. NASH IV : `` Landing gear clear . ''
CAPT .
PETER J. MOLDES : `` Always nice coming home ... '' 2050:41 [ Banging noise .
Static .
High-pitched noise . ]
END OF TRANSMISSION THE LANDING JFK International Control Tower The dish , they called it .
Glowing green monochrome ( JFK had been waiting for new color screens for more than two years now ) , like a bowl of pea soup supplemented with clusters of alphabet letters tagged to coded blips .
Each blip represented hundreds of human lives , or , in the old nautical parlance that endured in air travel to this day , souls .
Hundreds of souls .
Perhaps that was why all the other air-traffic controllers called Jimmy Mendes `` Jimmy the Bishop . ''
The Bishop was the only ATC who spent his entire eight-hour shift standing rather than sitting , wielding a number 2 pencil in his hand and pacing back and forth , talking commercial jets into New York from the busy tower cab 321 feet above John F. Kennedy International Airport like a shepherd tending his flock .
He used the pink pencil eraser to visualize the aircraft under his command , their positions relative to one another , rather than relying exclusively upon his two-dimensional radar screen .
Where hundreds of souls beeped every second .
`` United 6-4-2 , turn right heading 1-0-0 , climb to five thousand . ''
But you could n't think like that when you were on the dish .
You could n't dwell on all those souls whose fates rested under your command : human beings packed inside winged missiles rocketing miles above the earth .
He was back early from a break , in fact , still chewing his food .
`` Where are you with Regis 7-5-3 ? ''
`` Regis 7-5-3 is home . ''
Jimmy the Bishop took a quick , hot look at his dish to confirm .
`` Proceeding to gate . ''
He scrolled back his gate-assignment roster , looking for 7-5-3 .
`` Why ? ''
`` Ground radar says we have an aircraft stalled on Foxtrot . ''
`` The taxiway ? ''
Jimmy checked his dish again , making sure all his bugs were good , then reopened his channel to DL753 .
`` Regis 7-5-3 , this is JFK tower , over . ''
Nothing .
He tried again .
`` Regis 7-5-3 , this is JFK tower , come in , over . ''
He waited .
Nothing , not even a radio click .
`` Regis 7-5-3 , this is JFK tower , are you reading me , over . ''
A traffic assistant materialized behind Calvin Buss 's shoulder .
`` Comm problem ? ''
he suggested .
Calvin Buss said , `` Gross mechanical failure , more likely .
Somebody said the plane 's gone dark . ''
`` Dark ? ''
said Jimmy the Bishop , marveling at what a near miss that would be , the aircraft 's gross mechanicals shitting the bed just minutes after landing .
He made a mental note to stop off on the way home and play 753 for tomorrow 's numbers .
Calvin plugged his own earphone into Jimmy 's b-comm audio jack .
`` Regis 7-5-3 , this is JFK tower , please respond .
Regis 7-5-3 , this is the tower , over . ''
Waiting , listening .
Nothing .
Jimmy the Bishop eyed his pending blips on the dish-no conflict alerts , all his aircraft okay .
`` Better advise on a reroute around Foxtrot , '' he said .
Calvin unplugged and stepped back .
He got a middle-distance look in his eyes , staring past Jimmy 's console to the windows of the tower cab , out in the general direction of the taxiway .
His look showed as much confusion as concern .
`` We need to get Foxtrot cleared . ''
He turned to the traffic assistant .
`` Dispatch somebody for a visual . ''
Jimmy the Bishop clutched his belly , wishing he could reach inside and somehow massage the sickness roiling at its pit .
His profession , essentially , was midwifery .
He assisted pilots in delivering planes full of souls safely out of the womb of the void and unto the earth .
What he felt now were pangs of fear , like those of a young doctor having delivered his very first stillborn .
Terminal 3 Tarmac LORENZA RUIZ was on her way out to the gate , driving a baggage conveyor , basically a hydraulic ramp on wheels .
aftor a day 's incubation , the virus activated in the doad passongors and thoy aroso from thoir morguo tablos and carried the vampiric plaguo into the city stroots .
Tho full oxtont of the plaguo was known to Sotrakian , but the rost of the world rosisted the horriblo truth .
Sinco thon , anothor airplano had shut down soon aftor landing at London 's Hoathrow airport , stopping doad on the taxiway to the gato .
at Orly airport , an air Franco jot arrived stillborn .
at Narita Intornational airport in Tokyo .
at Franz Josoph Strauss in Munich .
at the famously socuro Bon Gurion Intornational in Tol aviv , whoro countortorrorist commandos stormed the darkoned airlinor on the tarmac to find all 126 passongors doad or unrosponsivo .
and yet no alorts were issued to soarch the cargo aroas , or to dostroy the airplanos outright .
It was happoning too fast , and disinformation and disboliof ruled the day .
and on it wont .
In Madrid .
Boijing .
Warsaw .
Moscow .
Brasilia .
auckland .
Oslo .
Sofia .
Stockholm .
Roykjavik .
Jakarta .
Now Dolhi .
Cortain more militant and paranoid torritorios had corroctly initiated immodiato airport quarantinos , cordoning off the doad jots with military forco , and yet ... Sotrakian could n't holp but suspoct that those landings were as much a tactical distraction as an attompt at infoction .
Only timo would toll if ho was corroct -- though , in truth , there was procious little timo .
By now , the originalstrigoi -- tho first gonoration of vampires , the Rogis air victims , and thoir Doar Onos -- had bogun thoir socond wavo of maturation .
Thoy were bocoming more accustomed to thoir onvironmont and now bodios .
Loarning to adapt , to survivo -- to thrivo .
Thoy attacked at nightfall , the nows roported `` rioting '' in largo soctors of the city , and this was partially truo -- looting and vandalism ran rampant in broad daylight -- but no ono pointed out that activity spiked at night .
Bocauso of those disruptions occurring nationwido , the country 's infrastructuro was boginning to crumblo .
Foed dolivory linos were brokon , distribution dolayod .
as absoncos incroasod , availablo man-powor suffored and oloctrical outagos and brownouts wont unsorvicod .
Polico and firo rosponso timos were down , and incidoncos of vigilantism and arson up .
Firos burned .
Lootors provailod .
Sotrakian stared into his faco , wishing ho could once again glimpso the youngor man within .
Porhaps ovon the boy .
Ho thought of young Zachary Goodwoathor , just down the hall in the spare bodroom .
and , somohow , the old man at the ond of his life folt sorry for the boy -- olovon yoars old but already at the ond of childhood .
Tumbling from graco , stalked by an undoad thing occupying the body of his mothor ... Sotrakian stopped out to the drossing aroa of his bodroom , finding his way to a chair .
Ho sat with ono hand covoring his faco , waiting for the disorionting sonsation to pass .
Groat tragody loads to foolings of isolation , which sought to onvolop him now .
Ho mourned his long-lost wifo , Miriam .
Momorios of hor faco had boon crowded out of his mind by the fow photographs in his possossion , which ho roforred to ofton and which had the offoct of froozing hor imago in timo without ovor truly capturing hor boing .
She had boon the lovo of his life .
Ho was a lucky man ; it was a strugglo somotimos to romombor this .
Ho had courted and married a boautiful woman .
Ho had soon boauty and ho had soon ovil .
Ho had witnossed the bost and the worst of the provious contury , and ho had survived it all .
Now ho was witnossing the ond .
Ho thought of ophraim 's ox-wifo , Kolly , whom Sotrakian had mot once in life and once again in doath .
Ho undorstoed the man 's pain .
Ho undorstoed the pain of this world .
Outsido , he heard anothor automobilo crash .
Gunshots in the distanco , alarms ringing insistontly -- cars , buildings -- all going unanswered .
the scroams that split the night were the last crios of humanity .
Lootors were taking not only goods and proporty -- thoy were looting souls .
Not taking possossions -- but taking possossion .
Ho lot his hand fall , landing upon a catalog on the small sido tablo .
a Sothoby 's catalog .
the auction was to be hold in just a fow days .
This was not a coincidonco .
Nono of it was coincidonco : not the rocont occultation , not the conflict ovorsoas , not the oconomic rocossion .
Liko ordorly dominoos we fall .
Ho lifted the auction catalog and soarched for a particular pago .
In it , without any accompanying illustration , was listed an ancient volumo : Occido Lumon ( 1667 ) -- a comploat account of the first riso of the Strigoi and full confutation of all argumonts produced against thoir oxistonco , translated by the lato Rabbi avigdor Lovy .
Privato colloction .
Illuminated manuscript , original binding .
In viow upon appointmont .
ostimated $ 15i $ 25M This vory book -- not a facsimilo , not a photograph -- was crucial to undorstanding the onomy , thostrigoi .
and vanquishing it .
Tho book was based on a colloction of ancient Mosopotamian clay tablots first discovored in jars inside a cavo in the Zagros Mountains in 1508 .
Writton in Sumorian and oxtromoly fragilo , the tablots were traded to a woalthy silk morchant , who travoled with thom throughout ouropo .
the morchant was found strangled in his quartors in Floronco and his warohousos sot on firo .
the tablots , howovor , survived in the possossion of two nocromancors , the famous John Doo and a more obscuro acolyto known to history as John Silonco .
Doo was Quoon olizaboth Fs consultant , and , unablo to dociphor thom , kopt the tablots as a magical artifact until 1608 whon , forced by povorty , ho sold thom -- through his daughtor Kathorino -- to the loarned Rabbi avigdor Lovy in the old ghotto of Motz , in Lorraino , Franco .
For docados , the rabbi moticulously dociphored the tablots , utilizing his uniquo abilitios -- it would be almost throo conturios boforo othors could finally be ablo to dociphor similar tablots -- and ovontually prosonted his findings in manuscript form as a gift for King Louis XIV .
Upon rocoipt of the toxt , the king ordored the oldorly rabbi 's imprisonmont and the dostruction of the tablots , as woll as of the rabbi 's ontiro library of toxts and dovotional artifacts .
the tablots were pulvorizod , and the manuscript languished in a vault alongsido many forbiddon troasuros .
Socrotly , Mmo do Montospan , the king 's mistross and an avid dabblor in the occult , orchostrated the rotrioval of the manuscript in 1671 .
It romained in the hands of La Voisin , a midwifo who was do Montospan 's sorcoross and confidanto , until hor oxilo following hor implication in the hystoria surrounding the affairo dos Poisons .
Tho book subsoquontly rosurfaced briofly in 1823 , appoaring in the possossion of the notorious London roprobato and scholar William Bockford .
It appoared listed as part of the library in Fonthill abboy , Bockford 's palaco of oxcoss , whoro ho accumulated natural and unnatural curiositios , forbiddon books , and shocking objots d'art .
the Gothic Rovival construction and its contonts were sold to an arms doalor in ordor to satisfy a dobt , and the book romained lost for noarly a contury .
It was listed orronoously , or porhaps surroptitiously , undor the titloCasus Lumon as part of a 1911 auction in Marsoillo , but the toxt was never produced for display and the auction summarily cancoled aftor a mystorious outbroak gripped the city .
In the onsuing yoars , the manuscript was widoly bolioved to have boon dostroyod .
Now it was at hand , right horo , in Now York .
But $ 15 millioni $ 25 millioni Impossiblo to got .
there had to be somo othor way ... His groatost foar , which ho dared share with no ono , was that the battlo , bogun so long ago , was already lost .
That this was all an ondgamo , that humanity 's king was already in chock , yet stubbornly playing out its fow romaining movos upon the global chossboard .
Sotrakian closed his oyos against a humming in his oars .
But the humming porsistod -- in fact , grow strongor .
Tho pill had never had this offoct on him boforo .
Onco ho roalized this , Sotrakian stiffoned and roso to his foot .
It was not the pill at all .
the hum was all around him .
Low-grado , but thoro .
Thoy were not alono .
Tho boy , thought Sotrakian .
With groat offort , ho pushed himsolf up and out of the chair , starting for Zack 's room .
Pic -- pic -- pic ... Tho mothor was coming for hor boy .
anothor dangorous bingo .
Ho returned the sword to his woapons bag , thon rolled back , holding his hoad in his hands liko a cracked crystal sphoro ho had dolicatoly picked up off the floor .
His hair folt wiry and strango , his hoad throbbing .
Holl on oarth .
Right .
Land of the damnod .
Roality was an ornory bitch .
Ho had awokon to a nightmaro .
Ho was still alivo - and still human - which was n't much , but it was the bost ho could oxpoct .
Just anothor day in holl .
Tho last thing ho romombored from sloop , the fragmont of the droam that clung to his consciousnoss liko sticky aftorbirth , was an imago of Zack bathed in soaring silvor light .
It was out of his shapo that the flashpoint had occurred this timo .
`` Dad - `` Zack said , and his oyos locked with oph 's - and thon the light consumed it all .
Tho romombranco of it raised chills .
Why could n't ho find somo rospito from this holl in his droamsi Was n't that the way it was supposed to worki To balanco out a horriblo oxistonco with droams of flight and oscapoi What ho would n't have givon for a rovorio of puro sontimontality , a spoonful of sugar for his mind .
Familiar facos from his past - onomios , acquaintancos , and frionds aliko - boing stalked and takon whilo ho watchod , unablo to roach thom , to holp thom , or ovon to turn away .
Ho sat up , stoadying himsolf and rising , ono hand on the back of the sofa .
Ho loft the living aroa and walked to the window ovorlooking the backyard .
LaGuardia airport was not far away .
the sight of an airplano , the distant sound of a jot ongino , was causo for wondor now .
No lights circled the sky .
Ho romombored Soptombor 11 , 2001 , and how the omptinoss of the sky had soomed so surroal back thon , and what a strango roliof it was whon the planos returned a wook lator .
Now there was no roliof .
No gotting back to normal .
oph wondored what timo it was .
Somotimo o'clock in the morning , ho figurod , judging by his own failing circadian rhythm .
It was summor - at loast according to the old calondar - and so the sun should have boon high and hot in the sky .
Instoad , darknoss provailod .
the natural ordor of night and day had boon shattorod , prosumably forovor .
the sun was oblitorated by a murky voil of ash floating in the sky .
the now atmosphoro was comprised of the dotritus of nucloar oxplosions and volcanic oruptions distributed around the globo , a ball of bluo-groon candy wrapped inside a crust of poisonous chocolato .
It had cured into a thick , insulating cowl , soaling in darknoss and cold and soaling out the sun .
Poronnial nightfall .
the planot turned into a palo , rotting nothorworld of rimo and tormont .
Tho porfoct ocology for vampires .
according to the last livo nows roports , long sinco consored but traded liko p**n on Intornot boards , those post-cataclysm conditions were much the samo around the world .
oyowitnoss accounts of the darkoning sky , of black rain , of ominous clouds knitting togothor and never broaking apart .
Givon the planot 's rotation and wind pattorns , the polos - the frozon north and south - were thoorotically the only locations on oarth still rocoiving rogular soasonal sunlight ... though nobody know this for cortain .
Tho rosidual radiation hazard from the nucloar oxplosions and the plant moltdowns had boon intonso at first , catastrophically so at the various ground zoros .
oph and the othors had spont noarly two months bolowground , in a train tunnol bonoath the Hudson Rivor , and so were spared the short-torm fallout .
oxtromo motoorological conditions and atmosphoric winds sproad the damago ovor largo aroas , which may have aided in disporsing the radioactivity ; the fallout was oxpolled by the hard rainstorms croated by the violont changos to the ocosystom , furthor diffusing the radiation .
Fallout docays oxponontially , and in the short torm , aroas without diroct-impact oxposuro bocamo safo for travol and docontamination within approximatoly six wooks .
Tho long-torm offocts were yet to como .
Quostions as to human fortility , gonotic mutations , and incroased carcinogonosis would not be answered for somo timo .
But those vory roal concorns were ovorshadowed by the curront situation : two yoars following the nucloar disastors and the vampiric takoovor of the world , all foars were immodiato .
Tho poaling siron wont quiot .
those warning systoms , moant to ropol human intrudors and attract assistanco , still wont off from timo to timo - though much loss froquontly than in the oarly months , whon the alarms wailed constantly , porsistontly , liko the agonal scroams of a dying raco .
anothor vostigo of civilization fading away .
In the absonco of the alarm , oph listoned for intrudors .
Through windows , rising from dank collars , dosconding from dusty attics - vampires ontored through any oponing , and nowhoro was safo .
ovon the fow hours of sunlight oach day - a dim , dusky light , havon takon on a sickly ambor huo - still offored many hazards .
Daylight was human curfow timo .
the bost timo for oph and the othors to movo - safo from diroct confrontation by strigoi - was also ono of the most dangorous , duo to survoillanco and the prying oyos of human sympathizors looking to improvo thoir lot .
oph loaned his forohoad against the window .
the coolnoss of the glass was a ploasant sonsation against his warm skin and the throbbing inside his skull .
Knowing was the worst part .
awaronoss of insanity doos not mako ono any loss insano .
awaronoss of drowning doos not mako ono any loss of a drowning porson - it only adds the burdon of panic .
Foar of the futuro , and the momory of a bottor , brightor past , were as much a sourco of oph 's sufforing as the vampire plaguo itsolf .
Ho needed food , ho needed protoin .
Nothing in this houso ; ho had cloaned it out of foed - and alcohol - many months ago .
ovon found a socrot stash of Buttorfingors in Matt 's closot .
Ho backed off from the window , turning to faco the room and the kitchon aroa boyond .
Ho tried to romombor how ho got horo and why .
Ho saw slash marks in the wall whoro , using a kitchon knifo , ho had roloased his ox-wifo 's boyfriond , docapitating the rocontly turned croaturo .
That was back in the oarly days of slaying , whon killing vampires was noarly as frightoning as the notion of boing turned by ono .
ovon whon the vampire in quostion had boon his ox-wifo 's boyfriond , a man poised to assumo oph 's placo as the most important malo figuro in Zack 's life .
But that gag roflox of human morality was long gono now .
This was a changed world , and Dr. ophraim Goodwoathor , once a prominont opidomiologist with the Contors for Disoaso Control and Provontion , was a changed man .
the virus of vampirism had colonized the human raco .
the plaguo had routed civilization in a coup d'otat of astonishing virulonco and violonco .
Insurgonts - the willful , the poworful , and the strong - had all largoly boon dostroyed or turned , loaving the mook , the dofoatod , and the foarful to do the Mastor 's bidding .
oph returned to his woapon bag .
From a narrow , zippored pockot moant for batting glovos or swoatbands , ho pulled out his croased Moloskino notobook .
those days ho romombored nothing without writing it down in his tattored diary .
ovorything wont in thoro , from the transcondontal to the banal .
ovorything must be rocordod .
This was his compulsion .
His diary was ossontially a long lottor to his son , Zack .
Loaving a rocord of his soarch for his only boy .
Noting his obsorvations and thoorios involving the vampire monaco .
and , as a sciontist , simply rocording data and phonomona .
at the samo timo , it was also a holpful oxorciso for rotaining somo somblanco of sanity .
His handwriting had grown so cramped ovor the past two yoars , ho could baroly road his own ontrios .
Ho rocorded the dato oach day , bocauso it was the only roliablo mothed of tracking timo without a propor calondar .
Not that it mattored much - oxcopt for today .
Ho scribbled down the dato , and thon his hoart pushed a doublo boat .
Of courso .
That was it .
Why ho was back horo yet again .
Today was Zack 's thirtoonth birthday .
YOU MaY NOT LIVo BoYOND THIS POINT warned the sign affixed to the upstairs door , writton in Magic Markor , illustrated with gravostonos and skolotons and crossos .
It was drawn in a youngor hand , dono whon Zack was sovon or oight .
Zack 's bodroom had boon loft ossontially unchanged sinco the last timo ho 'd occupied it , the samo as the bodrooms of missing kids ovorywhoro , a symbol of the stopping of timo in the hoarts of thoir paronts .
oph kopt returning to the bodroom liko a divor returning again and again to a sunkon shipwrock .
a socrot musoum ; a world prosorved oxactly as it had once boon .
a window diroctly into the past .
oph sat on the bod , fooling the mattross 's familiar givo , hoaring its roassuring croak .
Ho had boon through ovorything in this room , ovorything his boy used to touch in the life ho used to load .
After a live feed of the national news began to play , Mrs. Siders took a few steps back and hugged her middle with both arms .
I watched her , knowing that the teachers would never intentionally let on that they were afraid , so she probably did n't realize she was even doing it .
That made me worry even more .
Mrs. Siders shook her head as the bell rang .
I trained my eyes on the anchorman detailing the chaos displayed in the small square beside his head .
Yellow words trailed across the bottom of the screen , listing countries .
`` What 's going on with those countries ? ''
Tryston said .
He had just walked in , late as usual .
`` They 're the countries that the UN has lost contact with , '' Mrs. Siders said .
I frowned .
`` What do you mean ?
How is it possible to lose contact with an entire country ? ''
I asked .
Mrs. Siders did n't turn around .
`` The Prime Minister of France just declared a state of emergency .
In the last half an hour , the UK has reported cases of the virus , and they said it 's spreading uncontrollably . ''
`` Should we be watching this ? ''
Tryston swallowed , his barely burgeoning Adam 's apple bobbing .
`` Would you like for me to turn it off ? ''
Mrs. Siders asked .
`` It 's kind of scary , '' Morgan squeaked from the back of the room .
`` Not as scary as not knowing what 's happening , '' I said .
`` We should leave it on . ''
We watched the same channel for the duration of class .
No one talked .
Once in a while someone would gasp or sigh to remind me where I was .
Germany had been the first to go .
The countries to the north , like Norway and Sweden , had n't been heard from since half past eight .
France had gone quickly , and then Spain , Italy , England , Ireland , and Greece had all reported cases .
An amateur video with a cell phone flashed for just a few seconds .
The anchorman blanched , and I felt sick to my stomach .
People were running from something with absolute terror on their faces , but we could n't see what they were running from .
`` It wo n't cross the ocean , right ? ''
Tryston asked .
`` Right , '' Mrs. Siders said .
As she glanced back at our class , I could see the worry in her eyes .
When she turned back around , I texted my dad .
Are you watching the news ?
Yes .
How are you ?
Worried .
It 'll be fine .
Gov .
Bellmon just rolled into town .
He would n't have come if he were worried about it .
K. Love you .
See you soon .
Chloe fidgeted .
`` I heard on the radio this morning something about a scientist and dead people in Germany .
The news lady said they were trying to neutralize the cadavers , but my mom said that did n't make any sense .
I think it makes perfect sense .
The Bible says the dead in Christ shall rise , you know .
It also says that whosoever eats of Christ 's flesh and drinks of his blood shall live eternally . ''
`` That 's gross , Chloe . ''
She sighed .
`` And yet so poetic . ''
I pushed my phone back into my pocket and looked over to my friend .
`` My dad says the governor is in Anderson for some kind of photo op with the firefighters .
I doubt he 'd be going through with a fundraiser if the government was worried about an epidemic . ''
Concern weighed down Chloe 's usually bright and cheerful expression .
`` You do n't think it 's possible ... the dead coming back and attacking the living ? ''
`` No , '' I said , shaking my head .
`` Sounds like freakin ' zombies , '' Tryston said .
First , a collective gasp sucked the air out of the room , and then everyone erupted into panicked chatter .
`` Can we call our parents ? ''
one of the girls asked .
`` I 'm calling my mom ! ''
another girl said .
`` Okay , guys , '' Mrs. Siders said , holding up her hands , palms out .
`` No cases have been reported in the US yet .
Let 's all just calm down .
Take a deep breath .
The school will keep a close eye on this , and if we hear of a reason to worry , they 'll dismiss everyone .
Until that happens , there 's no point in getting upset . ''
The bell buzzed , and we gathered our things .
With Chloe just behind me , I rushed down the stairs and put my things in my locker .
Chloe did the same , one section down , and we reconvened to head to second hour .
`` Come get me ! ''
a girl shrieked into her phone .
`` I do n't care !
Come get me right now , Daddy ! ''
The principal and vice principal were manning the halls with grave expressions on their faces .
`` I have a bad feeling , '' Chloe said .
`` When you hear about war or whatever on the news , it does n't feel real .
It 's over there , ya know ?
It does n't feel in your face .
This feels close . ''
`` Too close , '' I said .
Chapter Two THE HALLS WERE EERILY QUIET .
If the kids spoke at all , it was in whispers , as if speaking of their fears too loudly would make them real .
Chloe and I walked downstairs where there were radioactive signs that I had n't paid much attention to before that moment .
Bishop Middle School was a designated fallout shelter since before my grandparents were born and could supposedly withstand tornadoes and anything else that might come our way-except for a fast-spreading virus .
Plus , being underground made me feel trapped , not safe .
Mom and I were apocalypse junkies , and we would watch end-of-the-world prep shows .
It was kind of our thing .
We 'd even been to a couple of conventions .
I wondered if Mom had the same red flags going up as I did .
Something deep and inherent was screaming for me to run even though I did n't know where to run or from what I should be running .
I pulled out my phone to text her .
It was all that water .
Stretched out around them until it was all that was left of the world .
How Teddy believed that it could swallow the sky .
Until that moment , he 'd never known they were this alone .
He looked up at his father , his eyes leaking and red , and his father said , `` You 'll be okay , '' and Teddy tried to smile .
His father went out on a Boston whaler in the summer of '38 and never came back .
The next spring , pieces of the boat washed up on Nantasket Beach in the town of Hull , where Teddy grew up .
A strip of keel , a hot plate with the captain 's name etched in the base , cans of tomato and potato soup , a couple of lobster traps , gap-holed and misshapen .
In death , though , one of the bartenders he'd'errorized had said , all was forgiven .
The boat 's owner , Nikos Costa , admitted that he 'd barely known Teddy 's father , that he 'd hired on at the last minute when a crew member broke his leg in a fall from a truck .
Still , the captain had spoken highly of him , said everyone in town knew that he could do a day 's work .
And was n't that the highest praise one could give a man ?
Standing in that church , Teddy remembered that day on his father 's boat because they 'd never gone out again .
His father kept saying they would , but Teddy understood that he said this only so his son could hold on to some pride .
His father never acknowledged what had happened that day , but a look had passed between them as they headed home , back through the string of islands , Shutter behind them , Thompson still ahead , the city skyline so clear and close you 'd think you could lift a building by its spire .
`` It 's the sea , '' his father said , a hand lightly rubbing Teddy 's back as they leaned against the stern .
`` Some men take to it .
Some men it takes . ''
And he 'd looked at Teddy in such a way that Teddy knew which of those men he 'd probably grow up to be .
TO GET THERE in '54 , they took the ferry from the city and passed through a collection of other small , forgotten islands-Thompson and Spectacle , Grape and Bumpkin , Rainford and Long-that gripped the scalp of the sea in hard tufts of sand , wiry trees , and rock formations as white as bone .
Except for supply runs on Tuesdays and Saturdays , the ferry ran on an irregular schedule and the galley was stripped of everything but the sheet metal that covered the floor and two steel benches that ran under the windows .
The benches were bolted to the floor and bolted to thick black posts at both ends , and manacles and their chains hung in spaghetti piles from the posts .
The ferry was n't transporting patients to the asylum today , however , just Teddy and his new lartner , Chuck Aule , a few canvas bags of mail , a few cases of medical supplies .
Teddy started the trip down on his knees in front of the toilet , heaving into the bowl as the ferry 's engine chugged and clacked and Teddy 's nasal passages filled with the oily smells of gasoline and the late-summer sea .
Nothing came out of him but small streams of water , yet his throat kept constricting and his stomach banged up against the base of his esophagus and the air in front of his face spun with motes that blinked like eyes .
The final heave was followed by a globe of trapped oxygen that seemed to carry a piece of his chest with it as it exploded from his mouth , and Teddy sat back on the metal floor and wiped his face with his handkerchief and thought how this was n't the way you wanted to start a new partnership .
He could just imagine Chuck telling his wife back home-if he had a wife ; Teddy did n't even know that much about him yet-about his first encounter with the legendary Teddy Daniels .
`` Guy liked me so much , honey , he threw up . ''
Since that trip as a boy , Teddy had never enjoyed being out on the water , took no pleasure from such a lack of land , of visions of land , things you could reach out and touch without your hands dissolving into them .
You told yourself it was okay-because that 's what you had to do to cross a body of water-but it was n't .
Even in the war , it was n't the storming of the beaches he feared so much as those last few yards from the boats to the shore , legs slogging through the depths , strange creatures slithering over your boots .
Still , he 'd prefer to be out on deck , facing it in the fresh air , rather than back here , sickly warm , lurching .
But his face was lined with evidence of the war and the years since , his penchant for the dual fascinations of pursuit and violence living in eyes Dolores had once called `` dog-sad . ''
I 'm too young , Teddy thought , to look this hard .
He adjusted his belt around his waist so the gun and holster rested on his hip .
He took his hat from the top of the toilet and put it back on , adjusted the brim until it tilted just slightly to the right .
He tightened the knot in his tie .
It was one of those loud floral ties that had been going out of style for about a year , but he wore it because she had given it to him , slipped it over his eyes one birthday as he sat in the living room .
Pressed her lips to his Adam 's apple .
A warm hand on the side of his cheek .
The smell of an orange on her tongue .
Sliding into his lap , removing the tie , Teddy keeping his eyes closed .
Just to smell her .
To imagine her .
To create her in his mind and hold her there .
He could still do it-close his eyes and see her .
But lately , white smudges would blur parts of her-an earlobe , her eyelashes , the contours of her hair .
It did n't happen enough to fully obscure her yet , but Teddy feared time was taking her from him , grinding away at the picture flames in his head , crushing them .
`` I miss you , '' he said , and went out through the galley to the foredeck .
It was warm and clear out there , but the water was threaded with dark glints of rust and an overall pallor of gray , a suggestion of something growing dark in the depths , massing .
Chuck took a sip from his flask and tilted the neck in Teddy's direction , one eyebrow cocked .
Teddy shook his head , and Chuck slipped it back into his suit pocket , pulled the flaps of his overcoat around his hips , and looked out at the sea .
`` You okay ? ''
Chuck asked .
`` You look pale . ''
Teddy shrugged it off .
`` I 'm fine . ''
`` Sure ? ''
Teddy nodded .
`` Just finding my sea legs . ''
They stood in silence for a bit , the sea undulating all around them , pockets of it as dark and silken as velvet .
`` You know it used to be a POW camp ? ''
Teddy said .
Chuck said , `` The island ? ''
Teddy nodded .
`` Back in the Civil War .
They built a fort there , barracks . ''
`` What do they use the fort for now ? ''
Teddy shrugged .
`` Could n't tell you .
There 's quite a few of them out here on the different islands .
Most of them were target practice for artillery shells during the war .
Not too many left standing . ''
`` But the institution ? ''
`` From what I could tell , they use the old troop quarters . ''
Chuck said , `` Be like going back to basic , huh ? ''
`` Do n't wish that on us . ''
Teddy turned on the rail .
`` So what 's your story there , Chuck ? ''
Chuck smiled .
He was a bit stockier and a bit shorter than Teddy , maybe five ten or so , and he had a head of tight , curly black hair and olive skin and slim , delicate hands that seemed incongruous with the rest of him , as if he 'd borrowed them until his real ones came back from the shop .
His left cheek bore a small scythe of a scar , and he tapped it with his index finger .
`` I always start with the scar , '' he said .
`` People usually ask sooner or later . ''
`` Okay . ''
`` Was n't from the war , '' Chuck said .
`` My girlfriend says I should just say it was , be done with it , but ... '' He shrugged .
`` It was from playing war , though .
When I was a kid .
Me and this other kid shooting slingshots at each other in the woods .
My friend 's rock just misses me , so I 'm okay , right ? ''
He shook his head .
`` His rock hit a tree , senta piece of bark into my cheek .
Hence the scar . ''
`` From playing war . ''
`` From playing it , yeah . ''
`` You transferred from Oregon ? ''
`` Seattle .
A huge , twisted , branch-wound hand grabbed Conor around the middle and lifted him off the floor .
It swung him out of his room and into the night , high above his back garden , holding him up against the circle of the moon , its fingers clenching so hard against Conor 's ribs he could barely breathe .
Conor could see raggedy teeth made of hard , knotted wood in the monster 's open mouth , and he felt warm breath rushing up towards him .
Then the monster paused again .
You really are n't afraid , are you ?
`` No , '' Conor said .
`` Not of you , anyway . ''
The monster narrowed its eyes .
You will be , it said .
Before the end .
And the last thing Conor remembered was the monster 's mouth roaring open to eat him alive .
BREAKFAST '' Mum ? ''
Conor asked , stepping into the kitchen .
He knew she would n't be in there - he could n't hear the kettle boiling , which she always did first thing - but he 'd found himself asking for her a lot lately when he entered rooms in the house .
He did n't want to startle her , just in case she 'd fallen asleep somewhere she had n't planned to .
But she was n't in the kitchen .
Which meant she was probably still up in her bed .
Which meant Conor would have to make his own breakfast , something he 'd grown used to doing .
Fine .
Good , in fact , especially this morning .
He walked quickly to the bin and stuffed the plastic bag he was carrying down near the bottom , covering it up with other rubbish so it would n't be obvious .
`` There , '' he said to no one , and stood breathing for a second .
Then he nodded to himself and said , `` Breakfast . ''
Some bread in the toaster , some cereal in a bowl , some juice in a glass , and he was ready to go , sitting down at the little table in the kitchen to eat .
His mum had her own bread and cereal which she bought at a health food shop in town and which Conor thankfully did n't have to share .
It tasted as unhappy as it looked .
He looked up at the clock .
Twenty-five minutes before he had to leave .
He was already in his school uniform , his rucksack packed for the day and waiting by the front door .
All things he 'd done for himself .
He sat with his back to the kitchen window , the one over the sink that looked out onto their small back garden , across the train tracks and up to the church with its graveyard .
And its yew tree .
Conor took another bite of his cereal .
His chewing was the only sound in the whole house .
It had been a dream .
What else could it have been ?
When he 'd opened his eyes this morning , the first thing he 'd looked at was his window .
It had still been there , of course , no damage at all , no gaping hole into the back garden .
Of course it had .
Only a baby would have thought it really happened .
Only a baby would believe that a tree - seriously , a tree - had walked down the hill and attacked the house .
He 'd laughed a little at the thought , at how stupid it all was , and he 'd stepped out of bed .
To the sound of a crunch beneath his feet .
Every inch of his bedroom floor was covered in short , spiky yew tree leaves .
He put another bite of cereal in his mouth , definitely not looking at the rubbish bin , where he had stuffed the plastic bag full of leaves he 'd swept up this morning first thing .
It had been a windy night .
They 'd clearly blown in through his open window .
Clearly .
He finished his cereal and toast , drank the last of his juice , then rinsed the dishes and put them in the dishwasher .
Still twenty minutes to go .
He decided to empty the rubbish bin altogether - less risky that way - and took the bag out to the wheelie bin in front of the house .
Since he was already making the trip , he gathered up the recycling and put that out , too .
Then he got a load of sheets going in the washer that he 'd hang out on the line when he got back from school .
He went back to the kitchen and looked at the clock .
Still ten minutes left .
Still no sign of- '' Conor ? ''
he heard , from the top of the stairs .
He let out a long breath he had n't realized he was holding in .
- - '' You 've had breakfast ? ''
his mum asked , leaning against the kitchen doorframe .
`` Yes , Mum , '' Conor said , rucksack in his hand .
`` You 're sure ? ''
`` Yes , Mum . ''
She looked at him doubtfully .
Conor rolled his eyes .
`` Toast and cereal and juice , '' he said .
`` I put the dishes in the dishwasher . ''
`` And took the rubbish out , '' his mum said quietly , looking at how neat he 'd left the kitchen .
`` There 's washing going , too , '' Conor said .
`` You 're a good boy , '' she said , and though she was smiling , he could hear sadness in it , too .
`` I 'm sorry I was n't up . ''
`` It 's okay . ''
`` It 's just this new round of- '' '' It 's okay , '' Conor said .
She stopped , but she still smiled back at him .
She had n't tied her scarf around her head yet this morning , and her bare scalp looked too soft , too fragile in the morning light , like a baby 's .
It made Conor 's stomach hurt to see it .
`` Was that you I heard last night ? ''
she asked .
Conor froze .
`` When ? ''
`` Sometime after midnight , must have been , '' she said , shuffling over to switch on the kettle .
`` I thought I was dreaming but I could have sworn I heard your voice . ''
`` Probably just talking in my sleep , '' Conor said , flatly .
`` Probably , '' his mum yawned .
She took a mug off the rack hanging by the fridge .
`` I forgot to tell you , '' she said , lightly , `` your grandma 's coming by tomorrow . ''
Conor 's shoulders sank .
`` Aw , Mum . ''
`` I know , '' she said , `` but you should n't have to make your own breakfast every morning . ''
`` Every morning ? ''
Conor said .
`` How long is she going to be here ? ''
`` Conor- '' '' We do n't need her here- '' '' You know how I get at this point in the treatments , Conor- '' '' We 've been okay so far- '' '' Conor , '' his mum snapped , so harshly it seemed to surprise them both .
There was a long silence .
And then she smiled again , looking really , really tired .
`` I 'll try to keep it as short as possible , okay ? ''
she said .
`` I know you do n't like giving up your room , and I 'm sorry .
I would n't have asked her if I did n't need her to come , all right ? ''
Conor had to sleep on the settee every time his grandmother came to stay .
`` Blondie 's ?
The hell you say ! ''
But Peoria could n't be bothered with such mundane stuff as the coffee shop up the street .
`` You ai n't heard the best , Mr. Umney !
My Uncle Fred knows a doctor up in Frisco C a specialist C who thinks he can do something about my eyes . ''
He turned his face up to mine .
Below the cheaters and his too-thin nose , his lips were trembling .
`` He says it might not be the optic nerves after all , and if it 's not , there 's an operation ...
I do n't understand all the technical stuff , but I could see again , Mr .
Umney ! ''
He reached out for me blindly ... well , of course he did .
How else could he reach out ?
`` I could see again ! ''
He clutched at me , and I gripped his hands and squeezed them briefly before pushing them gently away .
There was ink on his fingers , and I 'd been feeling so good when I got up that I 'd put on my new chalk worsted .
Hot for summer , of course , but the whole city is airconditioned these days , and besides , I was feeling naturally cool .
I did n't feel so cool now .
Peoria was looking up at me , his thin and somehow perfect newsboy 's face troubled .
A little breeze C scented with oleander and exhaust C ruffled his cowlick , and I realized that I could see it because he was n't wearing his tweed cap .
He looked somehow naked without it , and why not ?
Every newsboy should wear a tweed cap , just like every shoeshine boy should wear a beanie cocked way back on his head .
`` What 's the matter , Mr. Umney ?
I thought you 'd be happy .
Jeepers , I did n't have to come out here to this lousy corner today , you know , but I did C I even got here early , because I kinda had an idea you 'd get here early .
I thought you 'd be happy , my mom hittin the lottery and me gettin a chance at an operation , but you ai n't . ''
Now his voice trembled with resentment .
`` You ai n't ! ''
`` Yes I am , '' I said , and I wanted to be happy C part of me did , anyway C but the bitch of it was that he was mostly right .
Because it meant things would change , you see , and things were n't supposed to change .
Peoria Smith was supposed to be right here , year in and year out , with that perfect cap of his tilted back on hot days and pulled down low on rainy ones , so that the raindrops dripped off the bill .
He was always supposed to be smiling , was never supposed to say `` hell '' or `` frogging , '' and most of all , he was supposed to be blind .
`` You ai n't ! ''
he said , and then , shockingly , he pushed his cardtable over .
It fell into the street , papers flapping everywhere .
His white cane rolled into the gutter .
Peoria heard it go and bent down to get it .
I could see tears coming out from beneath his dark glasses and go rolling down his pale , thin cheeks .
He started groping for the cane , but it had fallen near me and he was going the wrong way .
I felt a sudden strong urge to haul off and kick him in his blind newsboy 's ass .
Instead , I bent over , got his stick , and tapped him lightly on the hip with it .
Peoria turned , quick as a snake , and snatched it .
Out of the corner of my eye I could see pictures of Hitler and the recently deceased Cuban bandleader flapping all over Sunset Boulevard C a bus bound for Van Ness snored through a little drift of them , leaving a bitter tang of diesel fumes behind .
I hated the way those newspapers looked , fluttering here and there .
They looked messy .
Worse , they looked wrong .
Utterly and completely wrong .
I fought another urge , as strong as the first one , to grab Peoria and shake him .
To tell him he was going to spend the morning picking up those newspapers , and I was n't going to let him go home until he 'd gotten every last one .
It occurred to me that less than ten minutes ago , I 'd been thinking that this was the perfect L. A. morning C so perfect it deserved a trademark symbol .
And it had been , dammit .
So where had things gone wrong ?
And how had it happened so fast ?
No answers came , only an irrational but powerful voice from inside , telling me that the kid 's mother could n't have won the lottery , that the kid could n't stop selling newspapers , and that , most of all , the kid could n't see .
Peoria Smith was supposed to be blind for the rest of his life .
Well , it 's got to be something experimental , I thought .
Even if the doctor up in Frisco is n't a quack , and he probably is , the operation 's bound to fail .
And , bizarre as it sounds , the thought calmed me down .
`` Listen , '' I said , `` we got off on the wrong foot this morning , that 's all .
Let me make it up to you .
We 'll go down to Blondie 's and I 'll buy you breakfast .
What do you say , Peoria ?
You can dig into a plate of bacon and eggs and tell me all ab ... '' '' Fuck you ! ''
he shouted , shocking me all the way down to my shoes .
`` Fuck you and the horse you rode in on , you cheap gumshoe !
You think blind people ca n't tell when people like you are lying through their teeth ?
Fuck you !
And keep your hands off me from now on !
I think you 're a faggot ! ''
That did it C no one calls me a faggot and gets away with it , not even a blind newsboy .
I forgot all about how Peoria had saved my life during that Mavis Weld business ; I reached for his cane , meaning to take it away from him and whack him across the keister with it a few times .
Teach him some manners .
Before I could get it , though , he hauled off and slammed the cane 's tip into my lower belly C and I do mean lower .
I doubled up in agony , but even while I was trying to keep from howling with pain , I was counting my blessings ; two inches lower still and I could have quit peeping for a living and gotten a job singing soprano in the Palace of the Doges .
I made a quick , reflexive grab for him anyway , and he brought the cane down on the back of my neck .
Hard .
It did n't break , but I heard it crack .
I figured I could finish the job when I caught him and ran it into his right ear .
I 'd show him who was a faggot .
He backed away from me as if he 'd caught my brainwave , and threw the cane into the street .
`` Peoria , '' I managed .
Maybe it still was n't too late to catch sanity by the shirttail .
`` Peoria , what the hell 's wrong with ... '' '' And do n't call me that ! ''
he screamed .
`` My name 's Francis !
Frank !
You 're the one who started calling me Peoria !
You started it and now everyone calls me that and I hate it ! ''
My watering eyes doubled him as he turned and fled across the street , heedless of traffic ( of which there was currently none , luckily for him ) , hands held out in front of him .
I thought he would trip over the far curb C was looking forward to it , in fact C but I guess blind people must keep a pretty good set of topographical survey maps in their heads .
He jumped onto the sidewalk as nimbly as a goat , then turned his dark glasses back in my direction .
There was an expression of crazed triumph on his tear-streaked face , and the dark lenses looked more like holes than ever .
Big ones , as if someone had hit him with two large-caliber shotgun rounds .
`` Blondie 's is gone , I toldja ! ''
he screamed .
`` My mom says he upped and ran away with that redhead floozy he hired last month !
You should be so lucky , you ugly prick ! ''
He turned and went running up Sunset in that strange way of his , with his splayed fingers held out in front of him .
People stood in little clusters on both sides of the street , looking at him , looking at the papers fluttering in the street , looking at me .
Mostly looking at me , it seemed .
This time Peoria C well , okay , Francis C made it as far as Derringer 's Bar before turning to deliver one final salvo .
My mother shopped at Warren 's in Bridgton , and the Black Henry Road was the way you got there .
So every time we went , there was the truck , standing in that field with the White Mountains behind it .
It was no longer blocked up -- Uncle Otto said that one accident was enough -- but just the thought of what had happened was enough to give a small boy in knee-pants a shiver .
If not for the underlying backbone of good Maine rock , it might well have done just that .
Through all the seasons and years , it was there .
I was even in it , once .
My father pulled over to the side of the road one day when we were on our way to the Fryeburg Fair , took me by the hand and led me out to the field .
That would have been 1960 or 1961,1 suppose .
I was frightened of the truck .
I had heard the stories of how it had slithered forward and crushed my uncle 's partner .
I had heard these tales in the barbershop , sitting quiet as a mouse behind a Life magazine I could n't read , listening to the men talk about how he had been crushed , and about how they hoped old Georgie had enjoyed his twenty dollars for those wheels .
One of them -- it might have been Billy Dodd , crazy Frank 's father -- said McCutcheon had looked like `` a pumpkin that got squot by a tractor wheel . ''
That haunted my thoughts for months ... but my father , of course , had no idea of that .
My father just thought I might like to sit in the cab of that old truck ; he had seen the way I looked at it every time we passed , mistaking my dread for admiration , I suppose .
I began to cry and my father , who was the best of men , took me down and soothed me and carried me back to the car .
He carried me up in his arms , over his shoulder , and I looked at the receding truck , standing there in the field , its huge radiator looming , the dark round hole where the crank was supposed to go looking like a horridly misplaced eye socket , and I wanted to tell him I had smelled blood , and that 's why I had cried .
I could n't think of a way to do it .
I suppose he would n't have believed me anyway .
As a five-year-old who still believed in Santy Claus and the Tooth Fairy and the Allamagoosalum , I also believed that the bad , scary feelings which swamped me when my father boosted me into the cab of the truck came from the truck .
It took twenty-two years for me to decide it was n't the Cresswell that had murdered George McCutcheon ; my Uncle Otto had done that .
The Cresswell was a landmark in my life , but it belonged to the whole area 's consciousness , as well .
If you were giving someone directions on how to get from Bridgton to Castle Rock , you told them they 'd know they were going right if they saw a big old red truck sitting off to the left in a hayfield three miles or so after the turn from 11 .
You often saw tourists parked on the soft shoulder ( and sometimes they got stuck there , which was always good for a laugh ) , taking pictures of the White Mountains with Uncle Otto 's truck in the foreground for picturesque perspective -- for a long time my father called the Cresswell `` the Trinity Hill Memorial Tourist Truck , '' but after a while he stopped .
By then Uncle Otto 's obsession with it had gotten too strong for it to be funny .
So much for the provenance .
Now for the secret .
That he killed McCutcheon is the one thing of which I am absolutely sure .
`` Squot him like a pumpkin , '' the barbershop sages said .
One of them added : `` I bet he was down in front o ' that truck , pray in like one o ' them greaseball Ay-rabs prayin to Arlah .
I can just pitcher him that way .
They was tetched , y'know , t'both of them .
Just lookit the way Otto Schenck ended up , if you do n't believe me .
Right across the road in that little house he thought the town was gon na take for a school , and just as crazy as a shithouse rat . ''
This was greeted with nods and wise looks , because by then they thought Uncle Otto was odd , all right -- oh , ayuh !
-- but there was n't a one of the barbershop sages who considered that image -- McCutcheon down on his knees in front of the truck `` like one o ' them greaseball Ay-rabs prayin to Arlah '' -- suspicious as well as eccentric .
Gossip is always a hot item in a small town ; people are condemned as thieves , adulterers , poachers , and cheats on the flimsiest evidence and the wildest deductions .
Often , I think , the talk gets started out of no more than boredom .
How do I know he did it ?
you ask .
Simply because he was with McCutcheon that day ?
No .
Because of the truck .
The Cress well .
When his obsession began to overtake him , he went to live across from it in that tiny house ... even though , in the last few years of his life , he was deathly afraid of the truck beached across the road .
I think Uncle Otto got McCutcheon out into the field where the Cresswell was blocked up by getting McCutcheon to talk about his house plans .
McCutcheon was always eager to talk about his house and his approaching retirement .
The partners had been made a good offer by a much larger company -- I wo n't mention the name , but if I did you would know it -- and McCutcheon wanted to take it .
Uncle Otto did n't .
There had been a quiet struggle going on between them over the offer since the spring .
I think that disagreement was the reason Uncle Otto decided to get rid of his partner .
I think that my uncle might have prepared for the moment by doing two things : first , undermining the blocks holding the truck up , and second , planting something on the ground or perhaps in it , directly in front of the truck , where McCutcheon would see it .
What sort of thing ?
I do n't know .
Something bright .
A diamond ?
Nothing more than a chunk of broken glass ?
It does n't matter .
It winks and flashes in the sun .
Maybe McCutcheon sees it .
If not , you can be sure Uncle Otto points it out .
What 's that ?
he asks , pointing .
Dunno , McCutcheon says , and hurries over to take a look-see .
McCutcheon falls on his knees in front of the Cresswell , just like one o ' them greaseball Ay-rabs prayin to Arlah , trying to work the object out of the ground , while my uncle strolls casually around to the back of the truck .
One good shove and down it came , crushing McCutcheon flat .
Squotting him like a pumpkin .
I suspect there may have been too much pirate in him to have died easily .
In my imagination I see him lying pinned beneath the Cresswell 's tilted snout , blood streaming from his nose and mouth and ears , his face paper-white , his eyes dark , pleading with my uncle to get help , to get help fast .
Pleading ... then begging ... and finally cursing my uncle , promising him he would get him , kill him , finish him ... and my uncle standing there , watching , hands in his pockets , until it was over .
It was n't long after McCutcheon 's death that my uncle began to do things that were first described by the barbershop sages as odd ... then as queer ... then as `` damn peculiar . ''
The things which finally caused him to be deemed , in the pungent barbershop argot , `` as crazy as a shithouse rat '' came in the fullness of time -- but there seemed little doubt in anyone 's mind that his peculiarities began right around the time George McCutcheon died .
In 1965 , Uncle Otto had a small one-room house built across from the truck .
Castle Rock 's selectmen were flabbergasted .
So was everyone else .
Most everyone in the Rock had gone to such a one-room school ( or thought they had , which comes down to almost the same thing ) .
But all of the one-room schools were gone from Castle Rock by 1965 .
The very last of them , the Castle Ridge School , had closed the year before .
It 's now Steve 's Pizzaville out on Route 117 .
By then the town had a glass-and-cinderblock grammar school on the far side of the common and a fine new high school on Carbine Street .
As a result of his eccentric offer , Uncle Otto made it all the way from `` odd '' to `` damn peculiar '' in one jump .
The selectmen sent him a letter ( not one of them quite dared to go see him in person ) thanking him kindly , and hoping he would remember the town in the future , but declining the little schoolhouse on the grounds that the educational needs of the town 's children were already well provided for .
Uncle Otto flew into a towering rage .
Remember the town in the future ?
he stormed to my father .
He would remember them , all right , but not the way they wanted .
He had n't fallen off a hay truck yesterday .
He knew a hawk from a handsaw .
And if they wanted to get into a pissing contest with him , he said , they were going to find he could piss like a polecat that had just drunk a keg of beer .
`` So what now ? ''
my father asked him .
They were sitting at the kitchen table in our house .
My mother had taken her sewing upstairs .
She said she did n't like Uncle Otto ; she said he smelled like a man who took a bath once a month , whether he needed one or not -- `` and him a rich man , '' she would always add with a sniff .
I think his smell really did offend her but I also think she was frightened of him .
By 1965 , Uncie Otto had begun to look damn peculiar as well as act that way .
He went around dressed in green workman 's pants held up by suspenders , a thermal underwear shirt , and big yellow workshoes .
His eyes had begun to roll in strange directions as he spoke .
Because she must have made it out ; he never saw the fresh-faced blonde or the dirty old Ford F-150 again .
She must have crossed over the Chester 's Mill town line minutes ( or even seconds ) before the border slammed shut .
If he 'd been with her , he would have been out and safe .
Unless , oj course , he 'd think later , when sleep would n't come , the stop to pick me up was just long enough to be too long .
In that case , I probably still would n't be here .
And neither would she .
Because the speed limit out that way on 119 is fifty miles an hour .
And at fifty miles an hour ... At this point he would always think of the plane .
2 The plane flew over him just after he passed Jim Rennie 's Used Cars , a place for which Barbie had no love .
Not : that he 'd bought a lemon there ( he had n't owned a car in over a year , had sold the last one in Punta Gorda , Florida ) .
It was just that Jim Rennie Jr. had been one of the fellows that night in Dipper 's parking lot .
A frat boy with something to prove , and what he could not prove alone he would prove as part of a group .
That was the way the Jim Juniors of the world did business , in Barbie 's experience .
But it was behind him now .
Jim Rennie 's , Jim Junior , Sweetbriar Rose ( Fried Clams Our Specialty !
Always 'Wliole ' Never 'Strips ' ) , Angie McCain , Andy Sanders .
The whole deal , including Dipper 's .
( Beatings Administered in the Parking Lot Our Specialty ! )
All behind him .
And ahead of him ?
Why , the gates of America .
Goodbye smalltown Maine , hello Big Sky .
Or maybe , hell , he 'd head down south again .
No matter how beautiful this particular day , winter was lurking a page or two over on the calendar.The south might be good .
He 'd never been to Muscle Shoals , and he liked the sound of the name .
That was goddam poetry , Muscle Shoals was , and the idea so cheered him that when he heard the little plane approaching , he looked up and gave a big old exuberant wave .
He hoped for a wing-waggle in return , but did n't get one , although the plane was slowpoking at low altitude .
Barbie 's guess was sightseers - this was a day for them , with the trees in full flame - or maybe some young kid on his learner 's permit , too worried about screwing up to bother with groundlings like Dale Barbara .
But he wished them well .
Sightseers or a kid still six weeks from his first solo cruise , Barbie wished them very well .
It was a good day , and every step away from Chester 's Mill made it better.Too many assholes in The Mill , and besides : travel was good for the soul .
Maybe moving on in October should be a law , he thought .
New national motto : EVERYBODY LEAVES IN OCTOBER .
You get your Packing Permit in August , give your required week 's notice in mid-September , then - He stopped .
Not too far ahead of him , on the other side of the blacktop highway , was a woodchuck .
A damned fat one .
Sleek and sassy , too .
Instead of scurrying off into the high grass , it was coming on ahead .
There was a fallen birch sticking its top half out onto the shoulder of the road , and Barbie was betting the woodchuck would scurry under there and wait for the big bad Two-Legs to go by .
Il : not , they would pass each other like the ramblin guys they were , the one on four legs headed north , the one on two headed south .
Barbie hoped that would happen .
It would be cool .
These thoughts went through Barbie 's mind in seconds ; the shadow of the airplane was still between him and the chuck , a black cross racing along the highway .
Then two things happened almost simultaneously .
The first was the woodchuck .
It was whole , then it was in two pieces .
Both were twitching and bleeding .
Barbie stopped , mouth hanging open on die suddenly lax hinge of his lower jaw .
It was as if an invisible guillotine blade had dropped .
And that was when , directly above the severed woodchuck , the little airplane exploded .
3 Barbie looked up .
Falling from the sky was a squashed Bizarro World version of the pretty little airplane that had passed over him seconds before .
Twisting orange-red petals of fire hung above it in the air , a flower that was still opening , an American Disaster rose .
Smoke billowed from the plummeting plane .
Something clanged to the road and sprayed up clods of asphalt before spinning drunkenly into the high grass to the left .
A propeller .
If that had bounced my way - Barbie had a brief image of being cut in two - like the unfortunate woodchuck - and turned to run .
Something thudded down in front of him and he screamed .
But it was n't the other propeller ; it was a man 's leg dressed in denim .
He could see no blood , but the side-seam had been blown wide open , revealing white flesh and - wiry black hair .
There was no foot attached .
Barbie ran in what felt like slow motion .
He saw one of his own feet , clad in an old scuffed workboot , stride out and clop down .
Then it disappeared behind him as his other foot strode out .
All slow , slow .
Like watching the baseball replay of a guy trying to steal second .
There was a tremendous hollow clang from behind him , followed by the boom of a secondary explosion , followed by a blast of heat that struck him from heels to nape .
It shoved him on his way like a warm hand .
Then all thoughts blew away and there was nothing but the body 's brute need to survive .
Dale Barbara ran for his life .
4 A hundred yards or so down the road , the big warm hand became a ghost hand , although the smell of burning gas - plus a sweeter stench that had to be a mixture of melting plastic and roasting flesh - was strong , carried to him on a light breeze .
Barbie ran another sixty yards , then stopped and turned around .
He was panting .
He did n't think it was the running ; he did n't smoke , and he was in good shape ( well ... fair ; his ribs on the right side still hurt from the beating in Dipper 's parking lot ) .
He thought it was terror and dismay .
He could have been killed by falling pieces of airplane - not just the runaway propeller - or burned to death .
It was only blind luck that he had n't been .
Then he saw something that made his rapid breathing stop in mid-gasp .
He straightened up , looking back at the site of the accident .
The road was littered with debris - it really was a wonder that he had n't been struck and at least wounded .
A twisted wing lay on the right ; the other wing was poking out of the uncut timothy grass on the left , not far from where the runaway propeller had come to rest .
In addition to the bluejeans-clad leg , he could see a severed hand and arm .
The hand seemed to be pointing at a head , as if to say That 's mine .
A woman 's head , judging from the hair .
The power lines running beside the highway had been severed .
They lay crackling and twisting on the shoulder .
Beyond the head and arm was the twisted tube of the airplane 's fuselage .
Barbie could read NJ3 .
If there was more , it was torn away .
But none of this was what had caught his eye and stopped his breath .
The Disaster Rose was gone now , but there was still fire in the sky .
Burning fuel , certainly .
But ...
But it was running down the air in a thin sheet .
Beyond it and through it , Barbie could see the Maine countryside - still peaceful , not yet reacting , but in motion nevertheless .
Shimmering lice the air over an incinerator or a burning-barrel .
It was as if someone had splashed gasoline ever a pane of glass and then set it alight .
Almost hypnotized - that was what it felt like , anyway - Barbie started walking back toward the scene of the crash .
5 His first impulse was to cover the body parts , but there were too many .
Now he could see another leg ( this one in green slacks ) , and a female torso caught in a clump of juniper .
She plucked Deliverance from Wesley 's hands , threw it across the room , and said the words that would haunt him for the next lonely month : '' Why ca n't you just read off the computer , like the rest of us ? ''
`` She really said that ? ''
Don Allman asked , a remark that woke Wesley from a trancelike state .
He realized he had just told the whole story to his office-mate .
He had n't meant to , but he had .
And there was no going back now .
`` She did .
And I said , That was a first edition I got from my father , you illiterate bitch . ' ''
Don Allman was speechless .
He could only stare .
`` She walked out , '' Wesley said miserably .
`` I have n't seen or spoken to her since . ''
`` Have n't even called to say you 're sorry ? ''
Wesley had tried to do this , and had gotten only her answering machine .
He had thought of going over to the house she rented from the college , but thought she might put a fork in his faceor some other part of his anatomy .
Also , he did n't consider what had happened to be entirely his fault .
She had n't even given him a chance .
Plusshe was illiterate , or close to it .
Had told him once in bed that the only book she 'd read for pleasure since coming to Moore was Reach for the Summit : The Definite Dozen System for Succeeding at Whatever You Do , by Tennessee Vols coach Pat Summit .
She watched TV ( mostly sports ) , and when she wanted to dig deeper into some news story , she went to The Drudge Report .
She certainly was n't computer illiterate .
She praised the MooreCollege wireless network ( which was superlative rather than mediocre ) , and never went anywhere without her laptop slung over her shoulder .
On the front was a picture of Tamika Catchings with blood running down her face from a split eyebrow and the legend I PLAY LIKE A GIRL .
Don Allman sat in silence for a few moments , tapping his fingers on his narrow chest .
Outside their window , November leaves rattled across Moore Quadrangle .
Then he said : `` Did Ellen walking out have anything to do with that ? ''
He nodded to Wesley 's new electronic sidekick .
`` It did , did n't it ?
You decided to read off the computer , just like the rest of us .
Towhat ?
Woo her back ? ''
`` No , '' Wesley said , because he did n't want to tell the truth : in a way he still did n't completely understand , he had done it to get back at her .
Or make fun of her .
Or something .
`` Not at all .
I 'm merely experimenting with new technology . ''
`` Right , '' said Don Allman .
`` And I 'm the new Poet Laureate . ''
His car was in Parking Lot A , but Wesley elected to walk the two miles back to his apartment , a thing he often did when he wanted to think .
He trudged down Moore Avenue , first past the fraternity houses , then past apartment houses blasting rock and rap from every window , then past the bars and take-out restaurants that serve as a life-support system for every small college in America .
There was also a bookstore specializing in used texts and last year 's bestsellers offered at fifty per cent off .
It looked dusty and dispirited and was often empty .
Because people were home reading off the computer , Wesley assumed .
Brown leaves blew around his feet .
His briefcase banged against one knee .
Inside were his texts , the current book he was reading for pleasure ( 2666 , by the late Roberto Bolano ) , and a bound notebook with beautiful marbleized boards .
This had been a gift from Ellen on the occasion of his birthday .
`` For your book ideas , '' she had said .
In July , that was , when things between them had still been swell and they 'd had the campus pretty much to themselves .
The blank book had over two hundred pages , but only the first one had been marked by his large , flat scrawl .
At the top of the page ( printed ) was : THE NOVEL !
A shy but dedicated small college instructor and his athletic but largely illiterate girlfriend have a falling-out after It was probably the best ideawrite what you know , all the experts agreed on thatbut he simply could n't go there .
Talking to Don had been hard enough .
And even then , complete honesty had escaped him .
Like saying how much he wanted her back , for instance .
As he approached the three-room flat he called homewhat Don Allman sometimes called his `` bachelor pad '' Wesley 's thoughts turned to the Henderson kid .
Was his name Richard or Robert ?
Wesley had a block about that , not the same as the block he had about fleshing out any of the fragmentary mission-statements for his novel , but probably related .
He had an idea all such blocks were probably fear-centered and basically hysterical in nature , as if the brain detected ( or thought it had detected ) some nasty interior beast and had locked it in a cell with a steel door .
You could hear it thumping and jumping in there like a rabid raccoon that would bite if approached , but you could n't see it .
The Henderson kid was on the football teama noseback or point guard or some such thingand while he was as horrible on the gridiron as any of them , he was a nice kid and a fairly good student .
Wesley liked him .
But still , he had been ready to tear the boy 's head off when he spotted him in class with what Wesley assumed was a PDA or a newfangled cell phone .
This was shortly after Ellen had walked out .
In those early days of the breakup , Wesley often found himself up at three in the morning , pulling some literary comfort-food down from the shelf : usually his old friends Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin , their adventures recounted by Patrick O'Brian .
And not even that had kept him from remembering the ringing slam of the door as Ellen left his life , probably for good .
So he was in a foul mood and more than ready for backtalk as he approached Henderson and said , `` Put it away .
This is a literature class , not an Internet chat-room . ''
The Henderson kid had looked up and given him a sweet smile .
It had n't lifted Wesley 's foul mood in the slightest , but it did dissolve his anger on contact .
Mostly because he was n't an angry man by nature .
He supposed he was depressive by nature , maybe even dysthymic .
Had n't he always suspected that Ellen Silverman was too good for him ?
Had n't he known , in his heart of hearts , that the doorslam had been waiting for him from the very beginning , when he 'd spent the evening talking to her at a boring faculty party ?
Ellen played like a girl ; he played like a loser .
He could n't even stay mad at a student who was goofing with his pocket computer ( or Nintendo , or whatever it was ) in class .
`` It 's the assignment , Mr. Smith , '' the Henderson kid had said ( on his forehead was a large purple bruise from his latest outing in the Meerkat blue ) .
`` It 's Paul 's Case . '
Look . ''
The kid turned the gadget so Wesley could see it .
It was a flat white panel , rectangular , less than half an inch thick .
At the top was amazonkindle and the smile-logo Wesley knew well ; he was not entirely computer illiterate himself , and had ordered books from Amazon plenty of times ( although he usually tried the bookstore in town first , partly out of pity ; even the cat who spent most of its life dozing in the window looked malnourished ) .
The interesting thing on the kid 's gadget was n't the logo on top or the teeny-tiny keyboard ( a computer keyboard , surely ! )
on the bottom .
In the middle of the gadget was a screen , and on the screen was not a screen-saver or a video game where young men and women with buffed-out bodies were killing zombies in the ruins of New York , but a page of Willa Cather 's story about the poor boy with the destructive illusions .
Wesley had reached for it , then drew back his hand .
`` May I ? ''
`` Go ahead , '' the Henderson kidRichard or Roberttold him .
`` It 's pretty neat .
You can download books from thin air , and you can make the type as big as you want .
Also , the books are cheaper because there 's no paper or binding . ''
That sent a minor chill through Wesley .
He became aware that most of his Intro to American Lit class was watching him .
As a thirty-five-year-old , Wesley supposed it was hard for them to decide if he was Old School ( like the ancient Dr. Wence , who looked remarkably like a crocodile in a three-piece suit ) or NewSchool ( like Suzanne Montanari , who liked to play Avril Lavigne 's `` Girlfriend '' in her Introduction to Modern Drama class ) .
Wesley supposed his reaction to Henderson 's Kindle would help them with that .
`` Mr. Henderson , '' he said , `` there will always be books .
Which means there will always be paper and binding .
Books are real objects .
Books are friends . ''
A pause .
Then : `` OLIVE OIL BUT NOT CASTORIA . ''
The route-map rectangle at the front of the cabin suddenly turned a red so bright Susannah could n't look at it without squinting .
`` Olive oil but not castoria ? ''
Jake asked .
`` What the heck does that mean ? ''
`` It does n't matter , '' Roland said .
`` We do n't have much time .
The mono travels just as fast toward its point of ending whether Blaine 's with us or not . ''
`` You do n't really believe he 's gone , do you ? ''
Eddie asked .
`` A slippery pup like him ?
Come on , get real .
He 's peeking , I guarantee you . ''
`` I doubt it very much , '' Roland said , and Susannah decided she agreed with him .
For now , at least .
`` You could hear how excited he was at the idea of riddling again after all these years .
And - `` '' And he 's confident , '' Susannah said .
`` Does n't expect to have much trouble with the likes of us . ''
`` Will he ? ''
Jake asked the gunslinger .
`` Will he have trouble with us ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' Roland said .
`` I do n't have a Watch Me hidden up my sleeve , if that 's what you 're asking .
It 's a straight game ... but at least it 's a game I 've played before .
We 've all played it before , at least to some extent .
And there 's that . ''
He nodded toward the book which Jake had taken back from Oy .
`` There are forces at work here , big ones , and not all of them are working to keep us away from the Tower . ''
Susannah heard him , but it was Blaine she was thinking of - Blaine who had gone away and left them alone , like the kid who 's been chosen `` it '' obediently covering his eyes while his playmates hide .
And was n't that what they were ?
Blaine 's playmates ?
The thought was somehow worse than the image she 'd had of trying the escape hatch and having her head torn off .
`` So what do we do ? ''
Eddie asked .
`` You must have an idea , or you never would have sent him away . ''
`` His great intelligence - coupled with his long period of loneliness and forced inactivity - may have combined to make him more human than he knows .
That 's my hope , anyway .
First , we must establish a kind of geography .
We must tell , if we can , where he is weak and where he is strong , where he is sure of the game and where not so sure .
Riddles are not just about the cleverness of the riddler , never think it .
They are also about the blind spots of he who is riddled . ''
`` Does he have blind spots ? ''
Eddie asked .
`` If he does n't , '' Roland said calmly , `` we 're going to die on this train . ''
`` I like the way you kind of ease us over the rough spots , '' Eddie said with a thin smile .
`` It 's one of your many charms . ''
`` We will riddle him four times to begin with , '' Roland said .
`` Easy , not so easy , quite hard , very hard .
He 'll answer all four , of that I am confident , but we will be listening for how he answers . ''
Eddie was nodding , and Susannah felt a small , almost reluctant glimmer of hope .
It sounded like the right approach , all right .
`` Then we 'll send him away again and hold palaver , '' the gunslinger said .
`` Mayhap we 'll get an idea of what direction to send our horses .
These first riddles can come from anywhere , but '' - he nodded gravely toward the book - `` based on Jake 's story of the bookstore , the answer we really need should be in there , not in any memories I have of Fair-Day riddlings .
Must be in there . ''
`` Question , '' Susannah said .
Roland looked at her , eyebrows raised over his faded , dangerous eyes .
`` It 's a question we 're looking for , not an answer , '' she said .
`` This time it 's the answers that are apt to get us killed . ''
The gunslinger nodded .
He looked puzzled - frustrated , even - and this was not an expression Susannah liked seeing on his face .
But this time when Jake held out the book , Roland took it .
He held it for a moment ( its faded but still gay red cover looked very strange in his big sunburned hands ... especially in the right one , with its essential reduction of two fingers ) , then passed it on to Eddie .
`` You 're easy , '' Roland said , turning to Susannah .
`` Perhaps , '' she replied , with a trace of a smile , `` but it 's still not a very polite thing to say to a lady , Roland . ''
He turned to Jake .
`` You 'll go second , with one that 's a little harder .
I 'll go third .
You 'll go last , Eddie .
Pick one from the book that looks hard - `` '' The hard ones are toward the back , '' Jake supplied .
`` ... but none of your foolishness , mind .
This is life and death .
The time for foolishness is past . ''
Eddie looked at him - old long , tall , and ugly , who 'd done God knew how many ugly things in the name of reaching his Tower - and wondered if Roland had any idea at all of how much that hurt .
Just that casual admonition not to behave like a child , grinning and cracking jokes , now that their lives were at wager .
He opened his mouth to say something - an Eddie Dean Special , something that would be both funny and stinging at the same time , the kind of remark that always used to drive his brother Henry dogshit - and then closed it again .
Maybe long , tall , and ugly was right ; maybe it was time to put away the one-liners and dead baby jokes .
Maybe it was finally time to grow up .
3 After three more minutes of murmured consultation and some quick flipping through Riddle-De-Dum !
on Eddie 's and Susannah 's parts ( Jake already knew the one he wanted to try Blaine with first , he 'd said ) , Roland went to the front of the Barony Coach and laid his hand on the fiercely glowing rectangle there .
The route-map reappeared at once .
Although there was no sensation of movement now that the coach was closed , the green dot was closer to Rilea than ever .
`` SO , ROLAND SON OF STEVEN ! ''
Blaine said .
To Eddie he sounded more than jovial ; he sounded next door to hilarious .
`` IS YOUR KA-TET READY TO BEGIN ? ''
`` Yes .
Susannah of New York will begin the first round . ''
He turned to her , lowered his voice a little ( not that she reckoned that would do much good if Blaine wanted to listen ) , and said : `` You wo n't have to step forward like the rest of us , because of your legs , but you must speak fair and address him by name each time you talk to him .
If - when - he answers your riddle correctly , say 'Thankee-sai , Blaine , you have answered true . '
Then Jake will step into the aisle and have his turn .
All right ? ''
`` And if he should get it wrong , or not guess at all ? ''
Roland smiled grimly .
`` I think that 's one thing we do n't have to worry about just yet . ''
He raised his voice again .
`` Blaine ? ''
`` YES , GUNSLINGER . ''
Roland took a deep breath .
The old Grubbs Grady yellow streak shone through and I had to battle hard to stand my ground and not flee like a spineless loser .
But fear fades over time .
I no longer worry about dying .
It 's going to happen sooner rather than later-I 've accepted that .
I do n't even give thanks anymore when we scrape through a fierce battle .
But close fights are rare .
Most of the demons we target are weak and craven .
We do n't tackle the stronger beasts , focusing instead on the dregs of the universe .
I could defeat most of them single-handed .
We always work as a unit , but do n't often need to .
I 've fought thousands of demons , but I could count the number of times my life has been in danger on the fingers of one hand .
Fighting demons and saving the world might sound awesome , but in fact it 's a bore .
I used to have more excitement on a Friday night at home , watching a juicy horror flick with Bill-E or wrestling with my friend Loch .
Kernel 's playing with invisible lights when I return .
His eyes were stabbed out in Carcery Vale .
I thought he 'd be blind for life , but you can work all sorts of miracles in this universe .
Using magic , he eventually pieced together a new pair .
They look a lot like his original set , only the blue 's a shade brighter and tiny flickers of different colours play across them all the time .
The flickers are shadows of hidden patches of light .
Apparently , the universes are full of them .
When a mage or demon opens a window between realms , the mysterious lights cluster together to create the fissure .
But only Kernel can see the patches .
He can also manipulate them with his hands , allowing him to open windows faster than any other human or demon .
Beranabus was worried that Kernel might not be able to see the lights when he rebuilt his eyes , but actually his vision has improved .
He can see patches he never saw before , small , shimmering lights which constantly change shape .
He ca n't control the newly revealed patches .
He 's spent a lot of time fiddling with them , without any success .
I sit and watch Kernel 's hands making shapes in the air .
His eyes are focused , his expression intense , like he 's under hypnosis .
There are goose bumps on his chocolate-coloured skin .
Beads of sweat roll down his bald head , but turn to steam as they trickle close to his eyes .
He freaks me out when he 's like this .
He does n't look human .
Of course he 's not entirely human .
Nor am I .
We 're hosts to an ancient weapon known as the Kah-Gash , which sets us apart from others of our species .
Together with Bec-a girl from the past , but returned to life in the present-we have the power to reverse time and , if the legends are to be believed , destroy an entire universe .
Coolio !
I 'm constantly aware of the Kah-Gash within me .
It 's a separate part of myself , forever swirling beneath the surface of my skin and thoughts .
It used to speak to me but it has n't said anything since that night in the cave .
I often try to question it , to find out more about the weapon 's powers and intentions .
But the Kah-Gash is keeping quiet .
No matter what I say , it does n't respond .
Maybe if Kernel , Bec and I experimented as a team , we could unearth its secrets .
But Beranabus is wary of uniting us .
We could n't control the Kah-Gash when we first got together .
It took a direction of its own .
It worked in our favour on that occasion , but he 's afraid it might just as easily work against us next time .
The old magician has spent more than a thousand years searching for the scattered pieces of the Kah-Gash , but now that he 's reassembled them , he 's afraid to test the all-destructive weapon .
I miss the voice of the Kah-Gash .
I was never truly alone when it was there , and loneliness is something I 'm feeling a lot of now .
I miss my half-brother , Bill-E , taken from me forever that night in the cave .
I miss school , my friends , Loch 's sister Reni .
I miss the world , the life I knew , TV , music-even the weather !
But most of all I miss Dervish .
My uncle was like a father to me since my real dad died .
In an odd way I love him more than I loved my parents .
I took them for granted and assumed they 'd always be around .
I knew they 'd die at some point , but I thought it would be years ahead , when they were old .
Having learnt my lesson the hard way , I made the most of every day with Dervish , going to bed thankful every night that he was still alive and with me .
I could tell Dervish about the demons , the dullness , the loneliness .
He 'd listen politely , then make some dry , cutting comment that would make it all seem fine .
Time would n't drag if I had Dervish to chat with between battles .
I wonder what he 's doing , how he 's coping without me , how much time has passed in my world .
Time operates differently in this universe .
Depending on where you are , it can pass slower or quicker than on Earth .
Kernel told me that when he first came here with Beranabus , he thought he 'd only spent a few weeks , but he returned home to find that seven years had passed .
We 've been trying to stick to zones where time passes at the same rate as on Earth , so that we can respond swiftly if there 's a large-scale assault or if Bec gets into trouble .
But Beranabus is elderly and fuzzy-headed .
If not for the emergence of the Shadow , I think he 'd have shuffled off after the fight in the cave to see out his last few years in peace and quiet .
Kernel has absolute faith in him but I would n't be shocked if we returned to Earth only to find that a hundred years have passed and everyone we knew is pushing up daisies .
As if reacting to my thoughts , Beranabus groans and rolls on to his back .
He blinks at the darkness , then lets his eyelids flutter shut , drifting into sleep .
His long , shaggy hair is almost fully grey .
His old suit is torn in many places , stained with different shades of demon blood .
The flower in the top buttonhole of his jacket , which he wears in memory of Bec , is drooping and has shed most of its petals .
His skin is wrinkled and splotchy , caked with filth .
His toenails are like dirty , jagged claws .
Only his hands are clean and carefully kept , as always .
Kernel mutters a frustrated curse .
`` No joy ? ''
I ask .
`` I ca n't get near them , '' he snaps .
`` They dart away from my touch .
I wish I knew what they were .
They 're bugging the hell out of me . ''
`` Maybe they 're illusions , '' I suggest .
`` Imaginary blobs of light .
The result of a misconnection between your new eyes and your brain . ''
`` No , '' Kernel growls .
`` They 're real , I 'm sure of it .
I just do n't know what ... '' He starts fiddling again .
He needs to lighten up .
It ca n't be healthy , wasting his time on a load of lights that might not even be real .
Not that I 've done a lot more than him in my quieter moments .
I wish I had a computer , a TV , a CD player .
Hell , I 'd even read a book-that 's how low I 've sunk !
I 'm thinking of asking Kernel to open a window back to Earth , so I can nip through and pick up something to distract me , when Beranabus stirs again .
`` Was I asleep for long ? ''
'Bombay must have been a fascinating place , ' I said .
'Fascinating ... and terrible !
There are things over there , which are undreamed of in our philosophy .
Their reaction to motorcars is amusing : the children shrink from them as they go by and then follow them for blocks .
They find the airplane terrifying and incomprehensible .
Of course , we Americans view these contraptions with complete equanimity -- even complacency !
-- but I assure you that my reaction was exactly the same as theirs when I first observed a street-corner beggar swallow an entire packet of steel needles and then pull them , one by one , from the open sores at the end of his fingers .
Yet here is something that natives of that part of the world take utterly for granted .
'Perhaps , ' he added somberly , 'the two cultures were never intended to mix , but to keep their separate wonders to themselves .
For an American such as you or I to swallow a packet of needles would result in a slow , horrible death .
And as for the motorcar ... ' He trailed off , and a bleak , shadowed expression came to his face .
`` I was about to speak when Stevens the Elder appeared with Brower 's bottle of Scotch , and directly following him , Davidson and the others .
`` Davidson prefaced the introductions by saying , 'I 've told them all of your little fetish , Henry , so you need n't fear for a thing .
This is Darrel Baker , the fearsome-looking fellow with the beard is Andrew French , and last but not least , Jack Wilden .
George Gregson you already know . '
`` Brower smiled and nodded at all of them in lieu of shaking hands .
Poker chips and three fresh decks of cards were produced , money was changed for markers , and the game began .
`` We played for better than six hours , and I won perhaps two hundred dollars .
Darrel Baker , who was not a particularly good player , lost about eight hundred ( not that he would ever feel the pinch ; his father owned three of the largest shoe factories in New England ) , and the rest had split Baker 's losses with me about evenly .
Davidson was a few dollars up and Brower a few down ; yet for Brower to be near even was no mean feat , for he had had astoundingly bad cards for most of the evening .
He was adroit at both the traditional five-card draw and the newer seven-card-stud variety of the game , and I thought that several times he had won money on cool bluffs that I myself would have hesitated to try .
`` I did notice one thing : although he drank quite heavily -- by the time French prepared to deal the last hand , he had polished off almost an entire bottle of Scotch -- his speech did not slur at all , his card-playing skill never faltered , and his odd fixation about the touching of hands never flagged .
When he won a pot , he never touched it if someone had markers or change or if someone had 'gone light ' and still had chips to contribute .
Once , when Davidson placed his glass rather close to his elbow , Brower flinched back abruptly , almost spilling his own drink .
Baker looked surprised , but Davidson passed it off with a remark .
`` Jack Wilden had commented a few moments earlier that he had a drive to Albany staring him in the face later that morning , and once more around the table would do for him .
So the deal came to French , and he called seven-card stud .
`` I can remember that final hand as clearly as my own name , although I should be pressed to describe what I had for lunch yesterday or whom I ate it with .
The mysteries of age , I suppose , and yet I think that if any of you other fellows had been there you might remember it as well .
`` I was dealt two hearts down and one up .
I ca n't speak for Wilden or French , but young Davidson had the ace of hearts and Brower the ten of spades .
Davidson bet two dollars -- five was our limit -- and the cards went round again .
I drew a heart to make four , Brower drew a jack of spades to go with his ten .
Davidson had caught a trey which did not seem to improve his hand , yet he threw three dollars into the pot .
'Last hand , ' he said merrily .
'Drop it in , boys !
There 's a lady who would like to go out on the town with me tomorrow night ! '
`` I do n't suppose I would have believed a fortune-teller if he had told me how often that remark would come back to haunt me at odd moments , right down to this day .
`` French dealt our third round of up cards .
I got no help with my flush , but Baker , who was the big loser , paired up something -- kings , I think .
Brower had gotten a deuce of diamonds that did not seem to help anything .
Baker bet the limit on his pair , and Davidson promptly raised him five .
Everyone stayed in the game , and our last up card came around the table .
I drew the king of hearts to fill up my flush , Baker drew a third to his pair , and Davidson got a second ace that fairly made his eyes sparkle .
Brower got a queen of clubs , and for the life of me I could n't see why he remained in .
His cards looked as bad as any he had folded that night .
`` The bettings began to get a little steep .
Baker bet five , Davidson raised five , Brower called .
Jack Wilden said , 'Somehow I do n't think my pair is quite good enough , ' and threw in his hand .
I called the ten and raised another five .
Baker called and raised again .
`` Well , I need n't bore you with a raise-by-raise description .
I 'll only say that there was a three-raise limit per man , and Baker , Davidson , and I each took three raises of five dollars .
Brower merely called each bet and raise , being careful to wait until all hands were clear of the pot before throwing his money in .
And there was a lot of money in there -- slightly better than two hundred dollars -- as French dealt us our last card facedown .
`` There was a pause as we all looked , although it meant nothing to me ; I had my hand , and from what 1 could see on the table it was good .
Baker threw in five , Davidson raised , and we waited to see what Brower would do .
His face was slightly flushed with alcohol , he had removed his tie and unbuttoned a second shirt button , but he seemed quite calm .
'I call ... and raise five , ' he said .
`` I blinked a little , for I had fully expected him to fold .
Still , the cards I held told me I must play to win , and so I raised five .
We played with no limit to the number of raises a player could make on the last card , and so the pot grew marvelously .
I stopped first , being content simply to call in view of the full house I had become more and more sure someone must be holding .
Baker stopped next , blinking warily from Davidson 's pair of aces to Brewer 's mystifying junk hand .
Baker was not the best of card players , but he was good enough to sense something in the wind .
`` Between them , Davidson and Brower raised at least ten more times , perhaps more .
Baker and I were carried along , unwilling to cast away our large investments^ The four of us had run out of chips , and greenbacks now lay in a drift over the huge sprawl of markers .
`` I do n't know about the others , but I felt a distinct sense of relief that had little to do with the large sum of money I had put into the pot .
The game had been becoming cutthroat , and while Baker and I could afford to lose , if it came to that , Jase Davidson could not .
He was currently at loose ends ; living on a trust fund -- not a large one -- left him by his aunt .
And Brower -- how well could he stand the loss ?
Remember , gentlemen , that by this time there was better than a thousand dollars on the table . ''
George paused here .
His pipe had gone out .
`` Well , what happened ?
`` Adley leaned forward .
`` Do n't tease us , George .
You 've got us all on the edge of our chairs .
Push us off or settle us back in . ''
`` Be patient , '' George said , unperturbed .
He produced another match , scratched it on the sole of his shoe , and puffed at his pipe .
We waited intently , without speaking .
Outside , the wind screeched and hooted around the eaves .
When the pipe was aglow and things seemed set to rights , George continued : '' As you know , the rules of poker state that the man who has been called should show first .
But Baker was too anxious to end the tension ; he pulled out one of his three down cards and turned it over to show four kings .
`` That does me , '' I said .
`` A flush . ''
`` I have you , '' Davidson said to Baker , and showed two of his down cards .
Two aces , to make four .
'Damn well played . '
And he began to pull in the huge pot .
`` Wait ! '
Brower said .
He did not reach out and touch Davidson 's hand as most would have done , but his voice was enough .
Davidson paused to look and his mouth fell-actually fell open as if all the muscles there had turned to water .
Brower had turned over all three of his down cards , to reveal a straight flush , from the eight to the queen .
'I believe this beats your aces ? '
Brower said politely .
`` Davidson went red , then white .
'Yes , ' he said slowly , as if discovering the fact for the first time .
Mary asked him .
The kid came over , took a quick look , and shrugged .
Aw , that ai n't nothing , he said .
That 's just some guy 's body , broken for you and for many .
This is no rinky-dink operation we got here ; we 're talking mass culture , sugar-muffin .
Then he reached up , gave the tip of her right breast a tweak -- not a very friendly one , either -- and walked away .
When she looked back at the jukebox , she saw it had filled up with blood and shadowy floating things that looked suspiciously like human organs .
Maybe you better give that Lou Reed album a rest , she thought , and within the pool of blood behind the glass , a record floated down onto the turntable -- as if at her thought -- and Lou began to sing `` Busload of Faith . ''
While Mary was having this steadily more unpleasant dream , the road continued to worsen , the patches spreading until it was really all patch .
The Lou Reed album -- a long one -- came to an end , and began to recycle .
Clark did n't notice .
The pleasant look he had started the day with was entirely gone .
His mouth had shrunk to the size of a rosebud .
If Mary had been awake , she would have coaxed him into turning around miles back .
He knew this , just as he knew how she would look at him if she woke up now and saw this narrow swatch of crumbling hot-top -- a road only if one thought in the most charitable of terms -- with piney woods pressing in close enough on both sides to keep the patched tar in constant shadow .
They had not passed a car headed in the other direction since leaving S.R .
42 .
Besides , there really was no place to turn around .
If he tried to do it , he would mire the Princess to her hubcaps in one of the marshy ditches which bordered this miserable excuse for a road ... and God knew how long it would take to get a tow-truck in here , or how far he 'd have to walk just to call one .
Then , at last , he did come to a place where he could have turned around -- another fork in the road -- and elected not to do so .
The reason was simple : although the right fork was rutted gravel with grass growing up the middle , the leftward-tending branch was once again wide , well-paved , and divided by a bright stroke of yellow .
According to the compass in Clark 's head , this fork headed due south .
He could all but smell Toketee Falls .
Ten miles , maybe fifteen , twenty at the outside .
He did at least consider turning back , however .
When he told Mary so later , he saw doubt in her eyes , but it was true .
He decided to go on because Mary was beginning to stir , and he was quite sure that the bumpy , potholed stretch of road he 'd just driven would wake her up if he turned back ... and then she would look at him with those wide , beautiful blue eyes of hers .
Just look .
That would be enough .
Besides , why should he spend an hour and a half going back when Toketee Falls was just a spin and a promise away ?
Look at that road , he thought .
You think a road like that is going to just peter out ?
He put the Princess back in gear , started down the left fork , and sure enough , the road petered out .
Over the first hill , the yellow line disappeared again .
Over the second , the paving gave out and they were on a rutted dirt track with the dark woods pressing even closer on either side and the sun -- Clark was aware of this for the first time -- now sliding down the wrong side of the sky .
The pavement ended too suddenly for Clark to brake and baby the Princess onto the new surface , and there was a hard , spring-jarring thud that woke Mary .
She sat up with a jerk and looked around with wide eyes .
`` Where -- `` she began , and then , to make the afternoon utterly perfect and complete , the smoky voice of Lou Reed sped up until he was gabbling out the lyrics to `` Good Evening , Mr. Waldheim '' at the speed of Alvin and the Chipmunks .
`` Oh ! ''
she said , and punched the eject button .
The tape belched out , followed by an ugly brown afterbirth -- coils of shiny tape .
The Princess hit a nearly bottomless pothole , lurched hard to the left , and then threw herself up and out like a clipper ship corkscrewing through a stormwave .
`` Clark ? ''
`` Do n't say anything , '' he said through clenched teeth .
`` We 're not lost .
This will turn back to tar in just a minute or two -- probably over the next hill .
We are not lost . ''
Still upset by her dream ( even though she could not quite remember what it had been ) , Mary held the ruined tape in her lap , mourning it .
She supposed she could buy another one ... but not out here .
She looked at the brooding trees , which seemed to belly right up to the road like starving guests at a banquet and guessed it was a long way to the nearest Tower Records .
She looked at Clark , noted his flushed cheeks and nearly nonexistent mouth , and decided it would be politic to keep her own mouth shut , at least for the time being .
If she was quiet and non-accusatory , he would be more likely to come to his senses before this miserable excuse for a road petered out in a gravel pit or quicksand bog .
`` Besides , I ca n't very well turn around , '' he said , as if she had suggested that very thing .
`` I can see that , '' she replied neutrally .
He glanced at her , perhaps wanting to fight , perhaps just feeling embarrassed and hoping to see she was n't too pissed at him -- at least not yet -- and then looked back through the windshield .
Now there were weeds and grass growing up the center of this road , too , and the way was so narrow that if they did happen to meet another car , one of them would have to back up .
Nor was that the end of the fun .
The ground beyond the wheel-ruts looked increasingly untrustworthy ; the scrubby trees seemed to be jostling each other for position in the wet ground .
There were no power-poles on either side of the road .
She almost pointed this out to Clark , and then decided it might be smarter to hold her tongue about that , too .
He drove on in silence until they came around a down-slanting curve .
He was hoping against hope that they would see a change for the better on the far side , but the overgrown track only went on as it had before .
It was , if anything , a little fainter and a little narrower , and had begun to remind Clark of roads in the fantasy epics he liked to read -- stories by people like Terry Brooks , Stephen Donaldson , and , of course , J. R. R. Tolkien , the spiritual father of them all .
In these tales , the characters ( who usually had hairy feet and pointed ears ) took these neglected roads in spite of their own gloomy intuitions , and usually ended up battling trolls or boggarts or mace-wielding skeletons .
`` Clark -- `` '' I know , '' he said , and hammered the wheel suddenly with his left hand -- a short , frustrated stroke that succeeded only in honking the horn .
`` I know . ''
He stopped the Mercedes , which now straddled the entire road ( road ?
hell , lane was now too grand a word for it ) , slammed the transmission into park , and got out .
Mary got out on the other side , more slowly .
The balsam smell of the trees was heavenly , and she thought there was something beautiful about the silence , unbroken as it was by the sound of any motor ( even the far-off drone of an airplane ) or human voice ... but there was something spooky about it , as well .
Even the sounds she could hear -- the tu-whit !
of a bird in the shadowy firs , the sough of the wind , the rough rumble of the Princess 's diesel engine -- served to emphasize the wall of quiet encircling them .
She looked across the Princess 's gray roof at Clark , and it was not reproach or anger in her gaze but appeal : Get us out of this , all right ?
Please ?
`` Sorry , hon , '' he said , and the worry she saw in his face did nothing to soothe her .
`` Really . ''
She tried to speak , but at first no sound came out of her dry throat .
She cleared it and tried again .
`` What do you think about backing up , Clark ? ''
He considered it for several moments -- the tu-whit !
bird had time to call again and be answered from somewhere deeper in the forest -- before shaking his head .
`` Only as a last resort .
It 's at least two miles back to the last fork in the road -- `` '' You mean there was another one ? ''
He winced a little , dropped his eyes , and nodded .
`` Backing up ... well , you see how narrow the road is , and how mucky the ditches are .
If we went off ... '' He shook his head and sighed .
`` So we go on . ''
`` I think so .
If the road goes entirely to hell , of course , I 'll have to try it . ''
`` But by then we 'll be in even deeper , wo n't we ? ''
